Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon Deren Yang Editor Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon Deren Yang Editor Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon With 578 Figures and 71 Tables Editor Deren Yang State Key Laboratory of Silicon Materials and School of Materials Science and Engineering Zhejiang University Hangzhou, China ISBN 978-3-662-56471-4 ISBN 978-3-662-56472-1 (eBook) ISBN 978-3-662-56473-8 (print and electronic bundle) https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 This work is subject to copyright. All rights are reserved by the Publisher, whether the whole or part of the material is concerned, speciﬁcally the rights of translation, reprinting, reuse of illustrations, recitation, broadcasting, reproduction on microﬁlms or in any other physical way, and transmission or information storage and retrieval, electronic adaptation, computer software, or by similar or dissimilar methodology now known or hereafter developed. The use of general descriptive names, registered names, trademarks, service marks, etc. in this publication does not imply, even in the absence of a speciﬁc statement, that such names are exempt from the relevant protective laws and regulations and therefore free for general use. The publisher, the authors, and the editors are safe to assume that the advice and information in this book are believed to be true and accurate at the date of publication. Neither the publisher nor the authors or the editors give a warranty, express or implied, with respect to the material contained herein or for any errors or omissions that may have been made. The publisher remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional afﬁliations. This Springer imprint is published by the registered company Springer-Verlag GmbH, DE, part of Springer Nature The registered company address is: Heidelberger Platz 3, 14197 Berlin, Germany Preface At present, resource shortage, environmental pollution, and ecological deterioration of the earth have become the main challenges for humanity. To protect resources and the environment, people all over the world make arduous efforts. Among them, the use of solar energy has attracted much attention in the last few decades. It is obvious that this clean and renewable form of energy, available in abundance, will be the main energy source for human beings in the future. Solar photovoltaic (PV) effect was discovered by a French scientist, A. E. Becquerel, in 1839, and his device could directly transform solar energy into electrical energy. A century later, in 1954, D. M. Chapin et al., at the Bell Labs in the USA, invented the ﬁrst solar cell with an efﬁciency of about 6%. Since then, research and application of modern photovoltaic solar cells have been booming. Solar cells have been mounted on satellites, space stations, remote prairies, mountains, and islands to offer off-grid electricity, and on the roofs of houses, apartments, and public buildings to generate in-grid electricity. In most cases, solar cells have been installed together to form large photovoltaic power stations to produce mega-watt (MW) or even giga-watt (GW) electricity. Up to 2017, more than 405 GW solar cells were installed all over the world. It is clear that the photovoltaic industry has become one of the most important renewable energy industries, which inﬂuences the future direction of energy consumption of human beings. Silicon, a semiconducting material, has widely been used in the microelectronic industry for more than 60 years as the basic material. Currently, silicon, including Czochralski (CZ) and multicrystalline (mc) silicon, is also the main material for the photovoltaic industry, and the related solar cells occupy more than 90% market shares. In fact, the ﬁrst solar cell was produced using n-type silicon. It is clear that silicon is the key material for the photovoltaic industry. At ﬁrst, in the production chain of the silicon photovoltaic industry, polycrystalline silicon with high purity should be manufactured. Second, crystalline silicon based on Czochralski, con- trolled directional solidiﬁcation techniques, and other technologies is obtained. After wafer processes, silicon solar cells will be fabricated on the basis of pn junction. Finally, those solar cells are assembled as modules for further installation. Therefore, this handbook will depict the properties, structures, fabrications, and applications of those silicon materials used in the photovoltaic industry. v This handbook provides a comprehensive summary of the state of the art of photovoltaic silicon science and technology. It is divided into six parts, which are Polycrystalline Silicon, Crystalline Silicon Growth, Silicon Wafer Preparing, Impu- rity and Defect in Crystalline Silicon, Thin Film Silicon, and Nano-structure Silicon Materials and Solar Cells. Every part contains several self-contained and accessible chapters that are connected to each other and are also independent for new comers. Totally, there are about 26 chapters in this handbook. Forty-seven world class scholars and industrial experts from 27 institutes/universities/research centers (com- panies) in China, France, Germany, Japan, Russia, and the USA have contributed their valuable knowledge to the handbook. As the editor in chief, I would like to express my great appreciation to the authors for their contributions. This handbook opens with an introduction in which I describe the importance of photovoltaic power for humanity and the research and application of silicon photo- voltaics. In Chapter 1, I also introduce the developmental history of silicon photo- voltaics in the last 60 years, the silicon materials which are used, and current investigations. Finally, I describe the part contents in the handbook so that readers can have an overview of the topics. Part 1 is about polycrystalline silicon, co-edited by Dr. Yupeng Wan, the CTO of GCL-poly Energy Holdings Limited in China, as the part editor. This part consisting of four chapters discusses higher purity polycrystalline silicon materials that work as raw materials for silicon solar cells. The contents include the basic properties of polysilicon and its characterization methods, written by X. Liu, P. Payra, and Y. Wan; Siemens process, written by D. Yan; ﬂuidized bed process, written by L. Jiang, B. Fieselmann, L. Chen, and D. Mixon; and upgrade metallurgical grade silicon, written by W. Ma, J. Wu, K. Wei, and Y. Lei. Part 2 describes crystalline silicon, co-edited by Prof. Kazuo Nakajima from Tohoku University in Japan as the part editor. This part is divided into ﬁve chapters and discusses the different techniques for the growth of crystalline silicon ingots and their properties. The contents include Czochralski single crystal silicon, contributed by X. Yu and D. Yang; high-performance cast multicrystalline silicon, contributed by C. Lan; dendritic cast multicrystalline silicon, contributed by K. Fujiwara; mono-like crystalline silicon, contributed by K. Kutsukake; and noncontact crucible crystalline silicon, contributed by K. Nakajima. Part 3 depicts wafer processes of crystalline silicon, co-edited by Prof. Hans Möller from Fraunhofer Technology Center for Semiconductor Materials in Ger- many as the part editor. This part contains three chapters and discusses how to prepare wafers from crystalline silicon ingots. The chapter about general wafer processing and the chapter characterization of wafer and supply materials during cutting are written by H. Möller, and the chapter about the wafer cleaning, etching, and texturization are written by A. Stapf, C. Gondek, E. Kroke, and G. Roewer. Part 4 is about impurities and defects in crystalline silicon that have seriously affected the efﬁciency of solar cells. This part consists of six chapters and is co-edited by Prof. Michael Seibt from Göttingen University as the part editor. This part ﬁrst depicts the important impurities in crystalline silicon, including oxygen impurity, contributed by G. Kissinger; carbon impurity, contributed by B. Gao and vi Preface K. Kakimoto; and nitrogen impurity, contributed by S. Yuan and D. Yang. Further- more, the chapter on metal impurity and gettering processes is contributed by E. Yakimov. Finally, dislocations in crystalline silicon, written by I. Yonenaga, and grain boundary, written by M. Trempa, G. Müller, J. Friedrich, and C. Reimann, are discussed in detail. Part 5 consisting of three chapters is about thin ﬁlm silicon materials, co-edited by Prof. Y. Zhao from Nankai University in China as the part editor. This part describes hydrogenated amorphous silicon thin ﬁlms and hydrogenated microcrystalline sili- con thin ﬁlms, written by Y. Zhao, X. Zhang, B. Yan, and L. Bai, and polycrystalline silicon thin ﬁlms, written by F. Liu and Y. Zhou. Part 6 is the last part which mainly describes nanocrystalline silicon and their application in solar cells. This part consists of four chapters, which are co-edited by Prof. J. Xu from Nanjing University in China. This part discusses nanocrystalline silicon, written by D. Wei, S. Xu, and I. Levchenko; nanocrystalline silicon-based multilayers, written by Y. Cao and J. Xu; polymorphous nano-Si and radial junction solar cells, written by L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas; and colloidal silicon quantum dots, written by S. Zhao and X. Pi. The handbook provides the most comprehensive, authoritative, and updated reference on photovoltaic silicon from material fabrication, physical structures, and processing techniques to their applications in solar cells. I believe all the readers from universities, institutes, and industries in silicon photovoltaic ﬁeld will beneﬁt from this handbook. November 2019 Deren Yang Editor Preface vii Contents 1 Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Deren Yang Part I Polycrystalline Silicon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Xiaoxia Liu, Pramatha Payra, and Yuepeng Wan 3 Siemens Process . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 Dazhou Yan 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69 Limin Jiang, Benjamin F. Fieselmann, Liguo Chen, and David Mixon 5 Upgrade Metallurgical Grade Silicon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109 Wen-hui Ma, Ji-Jun Wu, Kui-xian Wei, and Yun Lei Part II Crystalline Silicon Growth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si . . . . 129 Xuegong Yu and Deren Yang 7 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 175 C. W. Lan 8 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193 Kozo Fujiwara 9 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 215 Kentaro Kutsukake ix 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 235 Kazuo Nakajima Part III Silicon Wafer Preparing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267 11 Wafer Processing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269 Hans Joachim Möller 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 311 André Stapf, Christoph Gondek, Edwin Kroke, and Gerhard Roewer 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . 359 Hans Joachim Möller Part IV Impurity and Defect in Crystalline Silicon . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 399 G. Kissinger 15 Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437 Bing Gao and Koichi Kakimoto 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 463 Shuai Yuan and Deren Yang 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon . . . . . . . . . . 495 Eugene B. Yakimov 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 541 Ichiro Yonenaga 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 589 Matthias Trempa, Georg Müller, Jochen Friedrich, and Christian Reimann Part V Thin Film Silicon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 637 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 639 Ying Zhao, Xiaodan Zhang, and Baojie Yan 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films . . . . . . . . . . . . 693 Ying Zhao, Xiaodan Zhang, Lisha Bai, and Baojie Yan 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 757 Fengzhen Liu and Yurong Zhou x Contents Part VI Nano-structure Silicon Materials and Solar Cells . . . . . . . . 791 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 793 Deyuan Wei, Shuyan Xu, and Igor Levchenko 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells . . . . . . 843 Yunqing Cao and Jun Xu 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells . . . . . . . . 879 Linwei Yu and Pere Roca i Cabarrocas 26 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 933 Shuangyi Zhao and Xiaodong Pi Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 959 Contents xi About the Editor Prof. Dr. Deren Yang was born in 1964 in China. He is an academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and a Cheung Kong Professor at Zhejiang University in China. He is the dean of Faculty of Engineering at Zhejiang University. He is also the director of the State Key Lab of Silicon Materials and the director of Semi- conductor Materials Institute at Zhejiang University. Dr. Yang received his bachelors degree in 1985 and his Ph.D. in 1991 from Zhejiang University and then worked there. He worked as a visiting researcher in Japan in 1993, in Germany from 1995 to 1997, and in Sweden in 1999. In 1997, he was promoted to be a full professor by Zhejiang University and then promoted to be the Cheung Kong Professor in 2000 by the Ministry of Education of China. Dr. Yang received the National Science Fund for Distinguished Young Scholars in China in 2002, won the Award of National Nature Science in 2005 and 2013, as well as the Award of Chinese Young Science and Technology in 2006. He got elected as an academician of the Chinese Academy of Sciences in 2017. Dr. Yang has engaged in the research of silicon materials used for microelectronic devices, solar cells, and opto-electric and nano devices. He has authored/co- authored 14 books, including 6 books in English, and edited 6 proceedings of the international conference. He has published over 780 research papers in international peer-reviewed journals, such as Nature Communica- tions, Advanced Materials, Nano Letters, Journal of the American Chemical Society, Applied Physics Letter, and Physics Review B, with the total number of over 14,200 citations by SCI cited papers published by other groups. His h index is 63. He also holds 152 Chinese xiii patents. In the past, he chaired or co-chaired 18 interna- tional conferences/symposia and was appointed as the member of international committee of more than 50 international conferences. Dr. Yang also presented more than 53 invited talks in international conferences. He is the editor-in-chief of Superlattices and Micro- structures and also the member of editorial advisory board of eight journals, including three international journals, such as Physica Status Solidi and Silicon. Dr. Yang is vice director of China Photovoltaic Asso- ciation, member of Expert Team of Chinese Keystone Special Projects, member of Board of Chinese Renew- able Energy Association, member of Board of Chinese Crystal Association, member of SEMI China PV Com- mittee, and chief scientist of a national key project for basic research of China. xiv About the Editor Contributors Lisha Bai Institute of Photoelectronic Thin Film Devices and Technology, Nankai University, Tianjin, P. R. China Yunqing Cao National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures and School of Electronic Science and Engineering, The Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China College of Physics Science and Technology, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, China Liguo Chen GCL Technology Research Center, LLC, Princeton, NJ, USA Benjamin F. Fieselmann GCL Technology Research Center, LLC, Princeton, NJ, USA Jochen Friedrich Fraunhofer Technology Center Semiconductor Materials (THM), Freiberg, Germany Fraunhofer Institute for Integrated Systems and Device Technology (IISB), Erlangen, Germany Kozo Fujiwara Institute for Materials Research, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan Bing Gao The Institute of Technological Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China Christoph Gondek Institute of Inorganic Chemistry, TU Bergakademie Freiberg, Freiberg, Germany Limin Jiang GCL Solar Energy Trading Limited, Suzhou, Hong Kong Jiangsu Zhongneng Polysilicon Technology Development Co., Ltd., (GCL), Xuzhou, Jiangsu, P. R. China Koichi Kakimoto RIAM, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan G. Kissinger IHP  Leibniz-Institut für innovative Mikroelektronik, Frankfurt (Oder), Germany Edwin Kroke Institute of Inorganic Chemistry, TU Bergakademie Freiberg, Freiberg, Germany xv Kentaro Kutsukake Center for Advanced Intelligence Project, RIKEN, Tokyo, Japan C. W. Lan Department of Chemical Engineering, National Taiwan University (NTU), Taipei, Taiwan Yun Lei National Engineering Laboratory for Vacuum Metallurgy, Faculty of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, Kunming University of Science and Tech- nology, Kunming, Yunnan, China Igor Levchenko Plasma Sources and Application Center, NIE, Nanyang Techno- logical University, Singapore, Republic of Singapore School of Chemistry, Physics and Mechanical Engineering, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, QLD, Australia Fengzhen Liu College of Materials Science and Opto-Electronic Technology, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China Xiaoxia Liu Jiangsu Zhongneng Polysilicon Technology Development Co. Ltd., Jiangsu Province, China Wen-hui Ma National Engineering Laboratory for Vacuum Metallurgy, Faculty of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, Kunming University of Science and Tech- nology, Kunming, Yunnan, China Hans Joachim Möller Fraunhofer Technology Center for Semiconductor Mate- rials, Freiberg, Germany Georg Müller Crystal Consulting, Langensendelbach, Germany David Mixon GCL Technology Research Center, LLC, Princeton, NJ, USA Kazuo Nakajima Tohoku University, Sendai, Miyagi, Japan Pramatha Payra GCL Solar Materials US LLC, Pasadena, TX, USA Xiaodong Pi State Key Laboratory of Silicon Materials and School of Materials Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, Zhejiang, Hangzhou, China Christian Reimann Fraunhofer Technology Center Semiconductor Materials (THM), Freiberg, Germany Fraunhofer Institute for Integrated Systems and Device Technology (IISB), Erlangen, Germany Pere Roca i Cabarrocas Laboratoire de Physique des Interfaces et Couches Minces (LPICM), CNRS, Ecole Polytechnique, Palaiseau, France Gerhard Roewer Institute of Inorganic Chemistry, TU Bergakademie Freiberg, Freiberg, Germany André Stapf Institute of Inorganic Chemistry, TU Bergakademie Freiberg, Freiberg, Germany xvi Contributors Matthias Trempa Fraunhofer Institute for Integrated Systems and Device Tech- nology (IISB), Erlangen, Germany Yuepeng Wan GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd., Jiangsu Province, China Deyuan Wei Plasma Sources and Application Center, NIE, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Republic of Singapore Micromachines Lab 1, School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Republic of Singapore Kui-xian Wei National Engineering Laboratory for Vacuum Metallurgy, Faculty of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, Kunming University of Science and Tech- nology, Kunming, Yunnan, China Ji-Jun Wu National Engineering Laboratory for Vacuum Metallurgy, Faculty of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, Kunming University of Science and Tech- nology, Kunming, Yunnan, China Jun Xu National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures and School of Elec- tronic Science and Engineering, The Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China Shuyan Xu Plasma Sources and Application Center, NIE, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Republic of Singapore Eugene B. Yakimov Institute of Microelectronics Technology, Russian Academy of Science, Chernogolovka, Russia National University of Science and Technology, MISiS, Moscow, Russia Dazhou Yan China ENFI Engineering Corp, Beijing, China China Silicon Corporation Ltd., Luoyang, Henan, China Baojie Yan Institute of Photoelectronic Thin Film Devices and Technology, Nankai University, Tianjin, P. R. China Deren Yang State Key Laboratory of Silicon Materials and School of Materials Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China Ichiro Yonenaga Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan Linwei Yu School of Electronics Science and Engineering/National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China Laboratoire de Physique des Interfaces et Couches Minces (LPICM), CNRS, Ecole Polytechnique, Palaiseau, France Xuegong Yu State Key Lab of Silicon Materials and School of Materials Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, Zhejiang, Hangzhou, China Shuai Yuan State Key Laboratory of Silicon Materials and school of Materials Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, Zhejiang, Hangzhou, China Contributors xvii Xiaodan Zhang Institute of Photoelectronic Thin Film Devices and Technology, Nankai University, Tianjin, P. R. China Shuangyi Zhao State Key Laboratory of Silicon Materials and School of Materials Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, Zhejiang, Hangzhou, China Ying Zhao Institute of Photoelectronic Thin Film Devices and Technology, Nankai University, Tianjin, P. R. China Yurong Zhou University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China xviii Contributors Introduction 1 Deren Yang Earth is the home of human beings. However, resource shortage, environmental pollution, and ecological deterioration of the earth have become the main chal- lenges for humanity. To protect resources and the environment, people all over the world make arduous efforts. Among them, one of the main tasks is to change the energy sources of modern industries, which have seriously deteriorated earths environment. It is well-known that modern industries are driven chieﬂy by fuel- combustion power generation, hydroelectric power generation, and nuclear power generation, which conﬂict with environmental protection. Therefore, people are now devoted to clean and renewable energies. The sun, producing huge amounts of energy, is an important star for humanity. It is a continuous source of energy and light for people on earth, which maintains human life. While sunlight shines on earth, one part of this light is absorbed by the atmospheric layer and the other reaches the earths surface, which is absorbed or reﬂected by earth. Once the sunlight is absorbed by earth, it can be either directly used or transformed into other forms of energy. Therefore, it is believed that solar energy is one of the most important renewable energies that can support the development of human economy. There are several ways in which humans can use solar energy, e.g., photosynthesis, photochemical reaction, solar thermal, and solar photovoltaic. Among them, solar photovoltaic directly transforms solar energy into electrical energy by photovoltaic effect, which is the primary usage mode of solar energy. Dating back to 1839, A. E. Becquerel, a French physicist, found that under the illumination of sunlight, electrical voltage could be detected on two metal pieces in dilute hydrochloric acid, so-called photovoltaic (PV) effect. In the 1950s, the ﬁrst silicon solar cell was invented by Bell Labs in the USA, which triggered off its research and application in the modern PV D. Yang (*) State Key Laboratory of Silicon Materials and School of Materials Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China e-mail: mseyang@zju.edu.cn  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_1 1 industry. Nowadays, solar cells have been widely used in different ﬁelds all over the world. Solar cells have been mounted on satellites and space stations for electric power. They have been installed in remote prairies, mountains, and islands to provide off-grid electricity. They have also been installed on the roofs of houses, apartments, and public buildings to generate in-grid electricity. In most of the cases, solar cells have been installed together to form large PV power stations to produce megawatt (MW) or even gigawatt (GW) electricity. Since the invention of the ﬁrst solar cell, with about 6% conversion efﬁciency, in 1954, by D. M. Chapin, C. S. Fuller, and G. L. Pearson at Bell Labs in the USA, the PV industry has gradually developed due to the support by governments of the USA, Japan, Europe, China, India, etc. Solar cells were ﬁrst installed on spacecrafts to provide electric power. Then, people used them to support the powering of electronic counters, electronic watches, electronic toys, and so on. However, solar cells were expensive and their cost was largely higher than that of conventional electrical power. Therefore, solar cells were not used widely. In the 1970s and 1980s, the efﬁciency of solar cells increased gradually, and their cost decreased due to the support of different projects by governments of the USA, Germany, and Japan, such as Sunshine Project, 100,000 Roofs Project, etc. Solar cells were installed in remote areas such as grasslands, deserts, mountains, and islands to provide electric power. They were also installed in light towers, communication bases, and oil pipelines. People also started to install solar cells on the roofs of buildings to generate electricity. In the 2000s, PV industry was booming and developed very fast. Many countries made laws and policies to enhance the application of solar cells and nurture the PV industry. In 2017, about 98.9 GW of solar power capacity was installed all over the world, which was an increase of more than 60 times in comparison with the installation of 1.5 GW of solar power capacity in 2006. The growth rate of PV industry per year was more than 40% during the last decade and even higher than that of microelectronic industry. Meanwhile, the cost or price of solar cells and modules has continuously dropped and in 2017, by comparison, is only about 15% of that in 2006. Figure 1 shows the PV installation amount per year in the world, indicating rapid increase in the last decade. Of the 98.9 GW of solar power capacity installed all over the world in 2017, China added 53 GW, which is the largest PV market. Moreover, it is expected that more PV panels will be installed in the future. It is predicted that PV power all over the world in 2040 will be more than 1 terawatt (TW). Therefore, it is obvious that PV industry is one of the most promising industries in the world. Silicon (Si) is the main material for PV industry and occupies more than 90% market shares in the last decades while other thin ﬁlm solar cells including amor- phous Si, CdTe, and CuInGaSe occupy less than 10%. On the basis of high purity polycrystalline Si as raw materials, crystalline Si including Czochralski (CZ), multicrystalline (mc) Si, ribbon Si, etc., have been used for fabricating solar cells. In the initial stage of PV industry, leftover Si materials or fragments of Si wafers in microelectronic industry were used as raw materials. Since the beginning of this century, polycrystalline Si became scarce in the market because PV industry bloomed. More and more polycrystalline Si is being manufactured in Europe, the 2 D. Yang USA Asia, and the USA, especially in China. For example, GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Limited in China, built in 2006, has become the largest manufacturer of polycrystalline Si in the world and produced 75,000 ton polycrystalline Si in 2017, which is about 20% of world market share. Similar to Si solar cells, production of polycrystalline Si increased very much in the last decade and has satisﬁed market demands. Figure 2 shows the polycrystalline Si production as a function of time. It can be seen that in 2016 more than 400,000 tons polycrystalline Si were produced to support the production of 77 GW Si solar cells. Silicon is one of the most important materials in the world and was discovered in 1824 by Swedish scientist Jons Jakob Berzelius (17791948). In modern industry, Si is made from silica sand (SiO2). After the reaction of SiO2 and carbon, metallurgic Si with purity of 9598% can be fabricated. It is mainly used as an additive in steel and organosilicon production or as a component to produce Si-Al alloy. It is also used in the areas of medicine, biomaterials, etc. After the puriﬁcation by means of Siemens and other technologies, metallurgic Si becomes high purity Si with a content larger than Si 99.99999% (7 N) and is so called PV grade polycrystalline Si or semiconductor grade polycrystalline Si. In this process, the main target is how to reduce the concentration of boron, phosphorous, and metal impurities and how to decrease cost including energy consumption. Fig. 1 PV installation amount per year in the world 0 100 200 300 400 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 X 1000 (Ton) Year Source: CPIA, 2017 Fig. 2 Polycrystalline Si production in the world 1 Introduction 3 And then, man melts high purity Si in a quartz crucible and grows the molten Si into single crystalline Si by means of Czochralski (CZ) technology. This method was ﬁrst used to produce Si wafers for the microelectronic industry and later was also used to fabricate Si solar cells. From the 1950s to 1980s, all Si solar cells were made of CZ Si wafers. CZ Si possesses perfect crystal lattices and little impurities, which is of higher quality ﬁt for higher efﬁciency solar cells, but however consumes more energy and is produced by scarce raw materials, which increases cost. At present, CZ Si occupies about 25% market share and will increase its share in the near future. In addition, the higher quality single crystalline Si fabricated by ﬂoat zone (FZ) technology can be used to produce Si solar cells with higher efﬁciency. In 2017, 26.6% efﬁciency of Si solar cells was reported, which is the highest efﬁciency for Si single junction solar cells in the world. However, due to higher cost, FZ Si has not been widely used in PV industry, but only in the manufacture of higher efﬁciency solar cells in which cost is not sensitive. Multicrystalline Si (mc-Si) is another important Si material used in PV industry and occupies more than 60% market share. It is fabricated by melting Si raw materials in a square quartz crucible and then is casted by directional solidiﬁcation technology. It was developed in the 1970s and has been mass-produced since the 1990s. Recently, Si slugs or other particles at the bottom of crucibles are used as seeds to grow mc-Si, so called high-performance mc-Si. Based on cast solidiﬁcation technology, mono-cast Si is developed by means of single crystal Si seeds at the bottom of crucibles. However, multicrystalline grains around the edges and corners of mc-Si ingots, higher density dislocations and dislocation clusters in the ingots, and higher cost of seeds used for the ingots are hindering its application in PV. Moreover, several kinds of Si ribbon materials, which can be directly cut and used for the fabrication of solar cells, have been explored and even have been produced. Amorphous thin ﬁlm Si (a-Si) and solar cells have been widely investigated for more than 40 years and currently have little market share even if their efﬁciency was above 10% in the past. Single-junction, bi-junction, and tri-junction a-Si thin ﬁlms and solar cells have been fabricated, and, SiGe, SiC, etc., are also investigated as layers in the thin ﬁlm solar cells. At the moment, nano-Si materials including micro-/ nanocrystal Si combined of a-Si thin ﬁlms, nano-Si wires, nano-Si core-shell structures, etc., are focused. This handbook covers the photovoltaics of silicon materials, providing a comprehensive summary of the state of the art of photovoltaic silicon science and technology. It is divided into various areas including, but not limited to, fundamental principles, design methodologies, wafering techniques/fabrications, characteriza- tions, applications, current research trends, and challenges. The handbook includes six sections, which are Polycrystalline Silicon, Crystalline Silicon Growth, Silicon Wafer Preparing, Impurity and Defect in Crystalline Silicon, Thin Film Silicon, and Nano-structure Silicon Materials and Solar Cells, respectively. Higher purity polycrystalline Si is the raw material for crystal Si and solar cells. Therefore, Section 1 ﬁrst discusses the polycrystalline behaviors and its characterization methods and then describes three main technologies to produce 4 D. Yang polycrystalline Si, including Siemens process, ﬂuidized bed process with silane, and upgrade metallurgical grade silicon. Currently, Siemens process is the main tech- nology while ﬂuidized bed process is slowly increasing its market share. However, the application of upgrade metallurgical grade silicon in PV industry is still contro- versial due to its purity and costs, even if a great deal of research has been done in the last decade. Section 2 is mainly describes the growth technology of crystalline Si and its behaviors. CZ Si as the main technology for single crystal Si solar cells is intro- duced. And then, the growth and characterization of mc-Si, known also as high- performance mc-Si, is discussed. Moreover, the recently developed new technolo- gies related to mono-like cast Si and noncontact crucible cast Si are introduced. Section 3 is related to wafer preparing. This section is ﬁrst dedicated to wafer cutting process, which is divided into slurry wire sawing and diamond wire sawing. Later, wafer cleaning, etching, and texturization related to solar cell fabrication are discussed. Finally, the characterization of Si wafers and supply materials during wafer preparing is depicted. Section 4 describes impurities and defects in crystal Si, which have signiﬁcantly inﬂuenced the efﬁciency of solar cells. The behaviors, measurements, and effects of oxygen, carbon, nitrogen, and metal impurities are reported. Finally, gettering technology, which reduces the deteriorate effects of metal impurities, is discussed. Moreover, the defects including dislocations and grain boundaries in mc-Si are also focused. Section 5 introduces the behavior and fabrication of thin ﬁlm Si and its solar cells. At ﬁrst, hydrogenated amorphous Si thin ﬁlms, which are basic amorphous Si thin ﬁlms, are elaborated. Later, hydrogenated microcrystalline silicon thin ﬁlms, which have less light degradation, of solar cells are discussed. Even if polycrystalline silicon thin ﬁlms are not used to produce solar cells due to lower efﬁciency, its behavior, characteristics, and fabrication are also mentioned in this section. Section 6 describes the properties and manufacture of nanostructure Si and solar cells, which have been widely investigated and are expected to have the advantage of structures for the improvement of solar cell efﬁciency. Several concepts, including nanocrystalline Si and solar cells, size-controllable nanocrystal- line Si-based multilayers and solar cells, silicon nano-wires and radical junction solar cells, and colloidal Si quantum dots and their PV applications, are expounded in this section. Finally, I would like to thank all the section editors and co-authors of this handbook for their valuable contributions. I am also grateful to Rebecca Urban, Karin Bartsch, and Stephen Yeung from Springer for their help. 1 Introduction 5 Part I Polycrystalline Silicon Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 2 Xiaoxia Liu, Pramatha Payra, and Yuepeng Wan Contents Introduction ....................................................................................... 10 Float Zone (FZ) Method for Polysilicon Characterization ...................................... 13 Float Zone for Acceptors (Boron, Aluminum) and Donors (Phosphorous, Arsenic) Determination ................................................................................. 14 Polysilicon Donor and Acceptor Test Methods .................................................. 16 Sample Wafer Preparation .................................................................... 16 Procedure ...................................................................................... 16 Calculation .................................................................................... 17 Measuring Polycrystalline Silicon Conductivity ................................................. 17 Hot Probe, Thermoelectric Conductivity Type Test Method ................................ 17 Rectiﬁer Conductivity Type Test Method .................................................... 18 Test Methods for Measuring the Resistivity of Polysilicon ..................................... 19 Method for Determining Interstitial Oxygen and Substitutional Atomic Carbon Content in Polysilicon ................................................................... 19 The Method of Determining Interstitial Oxygen Content in Silicon Infrared Absorption ..................................................................................... 19 Test Method for Substitutional Atomic Carbon Content of Silicon by Infrared Absorption ..................................................................................... 22 Polysilicon Minority Carrier Lifetime Detection ................................................ 24 Apparatus for Pulsed Light Method .......................................................... 24 X. Liu (*) Jiangsu Zhongneng Polysilicon Technology Development Co. Ltd., Jiangsu Province, China e-mail: liuxiaoxia@gcl-power.com P. Payra GCL Solar Materials US LLC, Pasadena, TX, USA e-mail: ppayra@gclsolarmaterials.com Y. Wan GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd., Jiangsu Province, China e-mail: wanyuepeng@gcl-power.com  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_2 9 Sample Preparation ............................................................................ 25 Procedure ...................................................................................... 26 Calculation .................................................................................... 28 Test Methods for Measuring Metallic Impurities and Surface Metallic Contamination in Polysilicon ........................................................................................ 29 Test Method for Measuring Metallic Impurity Contamination in Polysilicon ............... 30 Test Method for Measuring Surface Metallic Contamination in Polysilicon ................ 32 Raw Materials and Other Test Methods .......................................................... 34 Metallurgical-Grade Silicon Test Methods ................................................... 34 Trichlorosilane Test Methods ................................................................. 34 High-Purity Gas Test Method ................................................................. 35 High-Purity Water Test Method .............................................................. 35 Ambient Air Test Method ..................................................................... 35 Packing Material Test Methods ............................................................... 35 Conclusion ........................................................................................ 35 References ........................................................................................ 36 Abstract The purity of polysilicon is usually between 6 N (99.9999%) and 9 N (99.9999999%). This chapter describes the test methods for measuring physical characteristics as well as quantiﬁcation of elemental impurities in polysilicon materials. Float zone (FZ) process is an important method for converting granular polysilicon and polycrystalline chunk materials to monocrystalline silicon. A monocrystalline silicon rod is used to test the resistiv- ity (n-type or p-type), minority carrier lifetime, carbon, oxygen, donors, and acceptor impurities in the polysilicon materials. Due to technological advance- ment, the analytical instrument detection limit (IDL) has improved in recent years allowing parts per billion atomic (ppba) to parts per trillion atomic (ppta) impurity detection in polysilicon. Donors (P, As, Sb), acceptors (B, Al), carbon, and oxygen can be measured by low-temperature FT-IR. The concentration of bulk and surface metal impurities (iron, chromium, nickel, copper, zinc, etc.) can be measured using ICP-MS. Keywords Polysilicon  Characterization  Analytical methods  Float zone (FZ)  Conductivity  Resistivity  Minority carrier lifetime  Donors  Acceptors  Metallic impurities Introduction Ultrapure polycrystalline silicon (polysilicon) is the major material used for crystal- line silicon-based solar cells. The silicon purity required is generally more than 99.99999%, or called 7-nines, or 7 Ns. Theoretically, the higher the purity of the silicon material, the better is the quality of the solar cell that is produced. The effect 10 X. Liu et al. of the polysilicon purity on the cost and quality of the resulting solar cells is an important factor that needs to be considered. Ultrahigh-purity silicon is manufactured by the puriﬁcation of metallurgical- grade silicon (MG silicon). MG silicon is produced from high-purity silicon dioxide using an electric arc furnace process and is typically about 98.5% pure. The feed materials silica and carbon (such as high-purity coals, charcoals, wood chips, cokes, etc.) are reacted in a furnace according to the following high temperature reduction: SiO2 sð Þ þ 2C sð Þ ¼ Si lð Þ þ 2CO g ð Þ: (1) Metallurgical-grade silicon is widely used in the metallurgical, chemical, and electrical industries. About 55% of MG silicon production is consumed by the metallurgical industry for aluminum production. Another 35% of the MG silicon manufactured is consumed by the chemical industry, mainly for the use in silicone- related polymers and other materials. Only a small portion of the MG silicon produced is consumed for the semiconductor and photovoltaic applications which require further puriﬁcation to form ultrahigh-purity polysilicon. For semiconductor and solar applications, ultrapure silicon is separated into electronic-grade silicon (EG silicon) and solar-grade silicon (SG silicon). In the past 15 years, there has been a rapid growth in the demand for solar-grade silicon, as shown in Fig. 1. Before 2005 ultrapure polysilicon was mainly consumed by the semiconductor industry. The source of silicon feedstock for solar cells at that time was the scrap leftovers from the semiconductor industry. After the rapid growth of the photovoltaic industry started around 2006, the demand on silicon for solar applications exceeded the amount of SG silicon that could be obtained from the semiconductor industry. Much polysilicon production capacity was added to meet the needs from the PV industry. By 2016 the quantity of polysilicon consumed by the PV industry was about 326,000 metric tons, which was more than 11 times the amount of polysilicon required for semiconductor needs. 360000 PV SEMI 300000 240000 180000 120000 60000 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 WEIGHT(ton) 2009 2010 YEAR 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Fig. 1 Market demand for polysilicon in the semiconductor and photovoltaic industries. (Source: CPIA reports, Bloomberg new energy, and GCL research data) 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 11 Solar grade silicon (SG silicon) is a term used to describe the silicon feedstock that can be directly utilized to produce solar cell material. This term is similar to the electronic-grade silicon (EG silicon) or semiconductor-grade silicon. Under the current main processes for solar cells, the purity requirement for SG silicon is not as high as that for EG silicon. Therefore, the sources of SG silicon may include virgin silicon (directly produced from Siemens reactors or ﬂuidized bed reactors), pot scraps, and recycled silicon. SG silicon may also include MG silicon material puriﬁed with physical processes (called as upgraded metal- lurgical silicon, UMG). The quality of SG silicon is determined by its purity. The purity of silicon is characterized by the amount of impurities, such as the concentration of donors, acceptors, metals, oxygen, carbon, and other impurities. This chapter outlines the accepted analytical methods for determining the concentration of the major impuri- ties in SG polysilicon. There are several standards for the speciﬁcations of SG polysilicon. The Chinese national standard for solar-grade polysilicon was issued in 2010 by the General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of the Peoples Republic of China (AQSIQ) and the National Standardization Management Com- mittee. The code is GB/T25074-2010 (Yang et al. 2010). This is the ﬁrst version of the SG polysilicon national standard in China. The quality of the SG polysilicon is divided into three categories. Compared to the national standard for the EG poly- silicon where only one grade is deﬁned, it also implied that the purity requirement for polysilicon in solar applications is so far relatively less strict. The detailed require- ments are cited in Table 1. The SEMI (Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International) standard committee also issued a standard on the polysilicon for solar cell in 2011 (new approved edition published on Aug 30, 2012), SEMI PV 17-1012 (2012). In this standard, polysilicon is categorized into four grades. The purity requirements for the III and IV grade levels of polysilicon in the SEMI (SEMI PV17-1012 2012) Table 1 Speciﬁcations for the solar-grade polysilicon (Yang et al. 2010) Parameters Speciﬁcations Grade I Grade II Grade III Resistivity (P, As, Sb): (Ω.cm) 100 40 20 Resistivity (B, Al): (Ω.cm) 500 200 100 Donors (P, As, Sb): ppba 1.5 3.76 7.74 Acceptors (B, Al): ppba 0.5 1.3 2.7 Minority lifetime: μs 100 50 30 Oxygen: (atoms/cm3) 1.0  1017 1.0  1017 1.5  1017 Carbon: (atoms/cm3) 2.5  1016 4.0  1016 4.5  1016 Total metal impurities (Fe, Cr, Ni, Cu, Zn, etc.) 0.05 0.1 0.2 Note: Bulk metal impurity requirement is optional 12 X. Liu et al. speciﬁcation guidelines are much lower than that in the GB/T25074-2010 (Yang et al. 2010). In fact, it is difﬁcult to specify the polysilicon purity that is acceptable for the manufacturing of solar cells because of the changing requirements. The topic of polysilicon purity is getting even more difﬁcult to deﬁne as the impurity concen- trations may change during crystallization and other processing steps. In general, the solar cell conversion efﬁciency will increase as the impurity concentration (mainly metallic impurities) decreases, until the minority lifetime of the wafer does not show signiﬁcant effect on the efﬁciency. As the solar cell manufacturing process improves, the requirement on the minority lifetime of wafers will be increased for the enhancement of the solar efﬁciency. The need to improve solar cell operating efﬁciency will impose new and higher requirements on the purity of polysilicon. With advances in the solar cell processing, the conversion efﬁciency of solar cell has been improved signiﬁcantly in the past decade. The requirements for virgin polysilicon for the PV applications are getting more stringent. The standards for SG polysilicon will be upgraded, and the different speciﬁcations of various organiza- tions will likely approach each other. In addition to the purity of polysilicon, the requirements for particle size, size distribution, and the surface impurities will be adjusted. The standards will apply to both polysilicon chunks produced by Siemens process and polysilicon beads pro- duced by ﬂuidized bed reactors (FBR) (Fig. 2). Speciﬁc methods that can be used to characterize polysilicon for semiconductor and/or solar applications are discussed in this chapter. Float Zone (FZ) Method for Polysilicon Characterization The ﬂoat zone process converts polycrystalline silicon (e.g., polysilicon or poly- Si) to monocrystalline silicon for impurity analysis. A rod (diameter 20mm) is drilled through the polysilicon produced in the Chemical Vapor Deposition Fig. 2 Process ﬂow diagram of polysilicon production and materials characterization 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 13 (CVD) reactor. This sample polysilicon rod is then heated with an induction heating ring to form melt zone. The melt crystallizes into monocrystal- line silicon, while the polysilicon rod is continuously melted by moving through the heating zone. Through this zone-melting process, many of the metal impurities in the polysilicon remain in the liquid phase as it moves down the polysilicon rod. The ﬂoat zone process can also convert granular polysilicon to monocrystalline silicon as described in SEMI MF1708-1104 (2004). Granular polysilicon to single-crystal conversion is a two-step process. The silicon granule consolidation into a polysilicon rod by melting ﬂuidized granules into the molten end of a silicon pedestal during the downward pass is the ﬁrst step. A single-crystal silicon seed is then melted into the bottom end of the poly rod during a single zone pass in the upward direction to convert to a single crystal in the second step. The single-crystal rod is used to measure trace impurities such as acceptor and donor components (typically boron, aluminum, phosphorous, arsenic, and antimony) and even substi- tutional carbon in the polysilicon. Float Zone for Acceptors (Boron, Aluminum) and Donors (Phosphorous, Arsenic) Determination Procedure (a) Seed preparation: N-type single crystal, resistivity 500Ω cm, carbon content 0.2  106, no dislocation, crystallographic orientation deviation 5, crystal orientation  111 . To avoid surface contamination, the seed crystal must be stored properly and recommended to use within 36 h after decontamination, pickling, cleaning, and drying. (b) Sample preparation: All operations should be performed in the clean room. HF and HNO3 are mixed into an etching ﬂuid in the volume ratio of 1:41:8. Polysilicon rod obtained from the core drill (core samples) is polished to remove 100 μm surface damage in the process of coring and then cleaned with deionized water of 18 Megohm-cm. The cleaned core sample must then be ﬂoat-zoned as soon as possible to reduce the possibility of contamination. If the sample is beyond the maximum period, the previous process must be repeated. The core sample may be sealed with appropriate clean material and stored in a clean room. Granular polysilicon may be used for ﬂoat zone without prior cleaning of granules. (c) Device preparation: Float zone apparatus with radio-frequency (RF) generator is used for RF coupling to the silicon. The apparatus is set up inside an ISO 6 (class 1000) clean room. Carefully clean all parts and thoroughly dry in the clean room environment. (d) Ingot growth: Through zone-melting process, the core sample from Siemens polysilicon was drawn as a single-crystal ingot with a diameter of 1020 mm. 14 X. Liu et al. (e) Ingot evaluation: (i) Visual inspection. Check the uniformity of the crystal ingot diameter and the continuity of the growth plate ridge and the ingot color to ascertain whether the ingot is a dislocation-free single crystal and free of oxide deposition caused by air leak or other reasons. (ii) Testing of crystal structure and electrical parameters. (iii) Test the orientation of the single crystal according to GB/T 1555 (Yang et al. 2009). (iv) Test the integrity of the ingot crystal according to GB/T 1554 (He et al. 2009). (v) Detect minority carrier lifetime of the single-crystal ingot according to SEMI MF28-0707 (SEMI MF28-0317 2017). (vi) Cut coupons on the position where it was eight times the single-crystal ingot melting zone length to measure its phosphorus content. Detect the phosphorus content using low-temperature Fourier transform infrared (LT FT-IR) spectroscopy or ﬂuorescence spectroscopy. Detect longitudinal resistivity of single crystal according to the method of GB/T 1551 DC two probe (Li et al. 2009). Read the data in the appropriate space based on the segregated coefﬁcient of phosphorus, get N resistivity, and calculate the phosphorus content. Float zone method for boron determination may be found in GB/T 4060 (Luo et al. 2007). Calculation After measuring the donors, acceptors, and carbon impurities in cut wafers, the values can be related to the impurity level present in the polysilicon by following Eq. (2). For parallel core sample where the silicon may have doped or may have different composition compared to deposition layer, Eq. (2) can be used to determine the values for the total rod product. Cp ¼ Af  Cf þ A1-Af    Cd A1 (2) where: Cp = concentration (total rod product) Af = cross-sectional area of silicon core, cm2 Cf = concentration of impurity in the silicon core, in ppba for donor or acceptor and ppma for carbon A1 = cross-sectional area of polycrystalline silicon rods, cm2 Cd = concentration of impurity in deposition layer in ppba for donor or acceptor and ppma for carbon 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 15 Polysilicon Donor and Acceptor Test Methods Polysilicon producers and users rely on the impurity (donors and acceptors) data obtained from low-temperature Fourier transform infrared (LT FT-IR) spectroscopy, SEMI MF 1630-1107 (2012). Donor impurities refer to elements in Group V of the periodic table, including P, As, etc. The donor impurity acts as a substitution replacement for a silicon atom. Acceptor impurities refer to elements located in Group IIIA in the periodic table and include B, Al, etc. Likewise, the acceptor impurity is a substi- tution replacement for a silicon atom and is measured using LT FT-IR or photoluminescence. The boron (n-type) or phosphorous (p-type) impurity content is an important index to evaluate the quality of the polysilicon. The instrumental sensitivity and reproducibility for phosphorus and boron remain to be improved. Sample Wafer Preparation (a) Samples must be cut and polished to ﬁt the LT FT-IR sample holder. The sample surface can be mechanically or chemically polished so that the thickness varia- tion of each sample should be less than 1% of the thickness. (b) Measuring electronically active impurity content, according to the thickness of the following samples: samples of high purity (greater than 2000 Ωcm) should have a thickness of 35 mm, to achieve a lower detection limit. Samples with the thickness of 520 mm can be used to measure the impurities below 0.01  109 atoms (0.01 ppba). Note: For heavily doped silicon (less than 10 Ω cm), the thickness of the sample should be 12 mm, to obtain adequate infrared light transmission. Procedure (a) The thickness of sample should be measured accurate to 0.02mm. Measure all the samples by the instrument, meanwhile, the reference sample should be measured at the same time to check the device performance. (b) Mount samples in cryostat and cool down below 15 K. (c) Set the instrument parameters with resolution of 1.0 cm1 or higher. (d) Take reference sample as the ﬁrst test sample. (e) A total of 1000 scans were collected for the empty sample chamber as a background. (f) Move the sample to the measurement position. (g) Turn on the continuous source of incandescent lamp; make sure that the samples are completely in the beam and aligned relative to the infrared beam. (h) Take 300 times scans of the sample at least; get all the maps collected. 16 X. Liu et al. (i) The blank, the apodization, and then the interferogram are converted to the spectrogram and the background spectrum. (j) Convert to an absorbance spectrum as a sample. (k) Store the spectrum for further processing and calculation of the absorption peak areas. (l) Steps of (ek) should be repeated for each sample. Calculation Calculate the concentration of active impurities/dopants at each point in the sample measured according to Eq. (3): Cij ¼ Iij=tj    f i (3) where: Cij = concentration of impurity/dopant element i, in sample j Iij = integral area of component i tj = thickness of sample j in millimeters (mm) fi = the calibration factor for component i, in millimeters (mm-cm) Concentration can also be expressed as density, Dij (atoms/cm3), shown in Eq. (4): Dij ¼ 5:0  1013  Cij (4) Measuring Polycrystalline Silicon Conductivity The conductivity is determined by the nature of the majority carrier in the semiconductor materials for electrical conductivity, generally n- and p-type. A conductivity type tester is used to directly measure the conductivity. There are several basic methods that can be used, such as rectiﬁer method, thermoelectric emfs, double-current dynamic conductance method, and Hall effect method. This chapter mainly introduces thermoelectric emfs and rectiﬁer method. One can choose a suitable measurement instrument according to the value of the resistivity. Hot Probe, Thermoelectric Conductivity Type Test Method Two metal probes with different temperatures are contacted with the sample; the thermoelectric potential signal is generated between the two probes. Silicon acts as a semiconductor. Conductivity can arise from either a p- or n- type of doping. 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 17 Measurement Equipment (a) Two probes are made of stainless steel and nickel; each probe tip is a 60 cone. One of the probes rod is wrapped with a 1020 W heating coil. For the resistivity of germanium materials greater than 40 Ω cm at room temperature, the probe is made of lead or graphite; the temperature of the probe is 5C higher than the room temperature. (b) The power supply can bring the temperature of the hot probe to 4060 C. (c) The null indicator is adjusted to make the deﬂection sensitivity less than 1  109 A/mm. (d) The temperature sensor is used to measure the temperature of the hot probe. Procedure (a) Verify that the thermal probe is connected on the negative pole zero indicator. (b) The material (stainless steel wool and other equivalent materials) is used to polish the thermal probe tip to remove the surface oxide layer. (c) The hot probe is heated to 4060 C, and use a temperature measuring device to measure temperature. (d) The distance between two probes is brought to within a few millimeters, and the sample is pressed by the two probes ﬁrmly without damage to the thin silicon. (e) Observe the deﬂection of the pointer of null indicator. If the pointer is deﬂected to the positive direction, the sample is p-type. If the is deﬂected to the negative direction, the sample is n- type. (f) Determine the conductivity type through moving the probe on the test area of the specimen surface. Rectifier Conductivity Type Test Method In this method, the conductivity of the sample is determined by the polarity of the voltage of the point contact reverse bias required. An alternating voltage is added to two contacts of the sample contacted. In the ﬁrst half cycle, one of the contacts will be inversely biased and will suffer most of the voltage drop. In the second half of next period, the contact will be a positive bias; compared with the ﬁrst half cycle, the voltage drop on the contact will be much smaller; there is a DC component in the mutual ﬂuctuation voltage drop, which can be detected by a third contact. Measurement Equipment (a) For three probes in GB/T 1551 (Li jing et al. 2009), a collinear four-probe array can be used. (b) The voltage using AC power is 6-24V; and the general using of 12.6V is to make sure the maximum current is not greater than 1.0A. (c) The sensitivity of the zero indicator should be better than 107 A/mm, and the 1 MΩ resistor series should be at least 0.1 V/mm resolution or polarity of the digital voltmeter (DVM); the resolution is better than the 0.1 V/unit scale. 18 X. Liu et al. Procedure (a) The probe is contacted with the sample, and the silicon wafer is supported by the thin silicon wafer without damage. (b) Observe the deﬂection of the zero-indicator pointer or the digital gauge reading. (c) Move the probe on the test area of the specimen surface to determine the conductivity type of the material. Test Methods for Measuring the Resistivity of Polysilicon Resistivity reﬂects the electrical properties of single-crystal silicon rod. A resistivity analyzer test uses a two-point probe or a four-probe method. For monocrystalline silicon resistivity measurements, the four-probe method is the most commonly used. The four-probe method has the advantage of requiring simple equipment, of provid- ing ease of operation, and of giving high-precision measurements. Method for Determining Interstitial Oxygen and Substitutional Atomic Carbon Content in Polysilicon Polysilicon oxygen exists in the form of interstitial oxygen or oxygen precipitation, and the carbon is present as a substitution for a silicon atom. Infrared absorption is the most common method for the determination of oxygen and carbon. The Method of Determining Interstitial Oxygen Content in Silicon Infrared Absorption Use a corrected infrared spectrometer and appropriate reference materials, and record the infrared transmission spectrum of a double-sided polishing oxygen- containing silicon chip by a reference method. The thickness of the oxygen-free reference sample should be similar to the test sample to eliminate the effects of absorption caused by the silicon lattice vibration. Using the absorption coefﬁcient of the silicon-oxygen absorption band at 1107 cm1, calculate the concentration of interstitial oxygen in silicon wafer. Apparatus (a) Infrared spectrometer: The resolution of Fourier transform infrared spectropho- tometer should be 4 cm1 or better and that of dispersive infrared spectropho- tometer should be 5 cm1 or better. (b) Sample holder: Sample should be loaded on a holder with tiny holes to prevent the passage of any infrared light beside the sample when testing smaller samples. The sample should be perpendicular (or substantially perpendicular) to the axial direction of the infrared beam. 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 19 (c) Micrometer: Micrometers or other devices applicable to the measurement of the thickness of the sample and the error should be less than 0.2%. (d) The thermocouple millivolt meter or other measuring systems applicable to measure the temperature of the sample during the test. Sample Preparation (a) The thickness of the sample in this method ranges from 0.04 cm to 0.4 cm. (b) Cut the monocrystalline silicon sample; measure the thickness of the sample by a micrometer or other devices after sided grinding and polishing. Both sides of the sample after processing should be parallel and the angle should be less than 5. The difference value of the thickness should be less than or equal to 0.5%, and the surface evenness should be less than the 1/4 of that at the maximum absorption wavelength of the measured impurity band. (c) Choose monocrystalline silicon wafers with their concentration of oxygen as low as possible. Compare these wafers by using them as reference to each other, and choose the one with lowest absorption coefﬁcient as the reference sample. Procedure (a) The spectrometer: Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectrometer should be equipped with optics and detector to be used in the region 2501300 cm1. (b) Equipment inspection: Determine the noise level at 100% baseline by measure- ment. During the measurement, record the transmission spectrum with both the sample and reference optical path being empty when using double-beam spec- trometer. For single-beam spectrometers, record the transmittance spectrum as a ratio of two spectra keeping the sample optical beam empty. Draw the 100% baseline of the spectrum with the wave number within 900 cm1 and 1300 cm1. Increase the testing time until transmittance line reaches (100 5) %. If the problem persists, the equipment needs to be repaired. Determine 0% transmittance line only when using dispersive equipment (DIR). Block the sample optical path, and record the zero of the device at the wave number ranging from 900 cm1 to 1300 cm1. If there is a larger non-zero signal in this range, it should be checked if there is stray light on the detector. If the problem persists, the equipment needs to be repaired. Record the characteristic curve of luminous ﬂux of the spectrometer only when using Fourier transform infrared spectrophotometer (FT-IR). Leave the sample optical path empty and draw the single-beam spectrum with its wave number ranging from 450 cm1 to 4000 cm1. Record the spectrum as the reference spectrum to assess the equipment performance after adjusting the equipment according to the equipment speciﬁcation. It should be readjusted when theres larger difference between the sample spectrum and the reference spectrum. Measure the spectrum of the sided and polished single-crystal silicon slice with itsresistivity greater than 0.5 Ωcm and itswavenumber rangingfrom 1600 cm1 to 2000 cm1 by air reference method to check the mid-scale linearity of the spec- trometer. If the value of the transmittance is not (53.8 2) % in this wavenumber 20 X. Liu et al. range, it should be adjusted by placing the sample perpendicular to the axial direction of the incident light, and the tilt angle should be no more than 10. Determine the measuring time of the spectra, and keep a sided and polished single-crystal silicon slice with its resistivity greater than 0.5 Ωcm, thickness ranging from 0.04 cm to 0.065 cm and content of oxygen ranging from 6  1017 atoms/cm3 to 9  1017 atoms/cm3, through Fourier transform infrared spectro- photometer (FT-IR) at the speed of 64 times a minute or through dispersive infrared spectrophotometer (DIR) at a certain speed, and scan to get the trans- mission spectrum with the record of full peak height. If the ratio of the net amplitude (Tbase  Tpeak) of the oxygen absorption band to the standard deviation does not exceed 100, increase the number of sweeps (FT-IR) or reduce the sweep rate (DIR) until the indicator is reached. (c) Surface treatment: Prior to each laboratory measurement, all samples, including the reference sample, are ﬁrst etched with HF to remove oxide from the surface. (d) Thickness measurement: When measuring the thickness of the test samples and the reference sample, the difference in thickness should be less than 0.2%. It is necessary to separately prepare a reference sample of appropriate thickness if it is more than 0.2%. (e) Temperature: Measure and record the temperature of the spectrometer sample chamber. (f) The infrared transmission spectra measurement: Obtain the spectra. It should be checked that the infrared beam passes through the center of the test sample and the reference sample. The spectra are obtained by putting the oxygen-free reference sample in the reference optical path and putting the testing sample in the sample optical path when using double-beam dispersive equipment and by calculating with reference spectrum and sample spectrum when using single- beam equipment. (g) Transmission spectra plotting: The wave number from 900 cm1 to 1300 cm1 should be covered during the scanning of the transmission spectrum. Draw a line as the baseline within 900 cm1 and 1300 cm1, and take the average transmit- tance of 900 cm1 to 1000 cm1 and 1200 cm1 to 1300 cm1 as the two sides of the line. Find the wave number corresponding to the minimum transmittance within 1102 cm1 and 1112 cm1, and record the value as Wp (given 5 signif- icant digits). Record the minimum transmittance as Tp as the peak absorbance. (h) Record: Determine and record the full width at half maximum height (FWHM) of the absorption peak. Calculation Calculate the interstitial oxygen content in silicon, N[O] in absolute units of atoms/ cm3. Absolute units can be divided by 5  1016 to convert it to the relative units in ppma. N O ½ ¼ 3:14  1017 αo atoms=cm3   (5) where αo = absorption coefﬁcient. 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 21 Test Method for Substitutional Atomic Carbon Content of Silicon by Infrared Absorption This test method is suitable for production control, quality assurance, and research on polysilicon materials, SEMI MF1391-1107 (2012). This method measures the substitutional atomic carbon content of silicon depending on its absorption coefﬁ- cient of infrared absorption peak at the wave number of 607.3 cm1 (16.47 μm) at cryogenic temperature (below 80 K). For room temperature (300 K), the absorption band at 605 cm1 (16.53 μm) can also be used. Apparatus (a) Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectrometer: The spectrum range is 500700 cm1 (1420 μm), and the resolution of spectrometer must be above 2 cm1 at room temperature and above 1 cm1 at 77 K. (b) Thickness measuring instrument: Thickness tolerance should be 0.005 mm or less. (c) Sample stand: The sample should be placed into the holder with hole to avoid any infrared crossing beside the sample if the sample is too small, and the sample stand should be perpendicular to or fundamentally perpendicular to the axis of infrared. (d) Window materials: The cryostat and proper window materials should maintain the sample and reference sample at 77 K. (e) Thermometer: Use a thermometer that can test the temperature of sample chamber at room-temperature measurements and the temperature of sample holder at low-temperature measurements. The thermometer tolerance should be  2C. Sample Preparation (a) Due to carbon segregation coefﬁcient that is 1 ( 7  102), the carbon test sample should be taken from the end of single crystal (when single crystals are obtained from the core-drilled polysilicon) because of high carbon content. (b) Reference sample must be the silicon which substitutional atomic carbon content is 1  1015 atoms/cm3 (0.02 ppma). (c) It can be applied for testing the substitutional atomic content of p-silicon and n-silicon with resistivity above 3 Ωcm and 1 Ωcm, respectively, as well as other non-highly precise silicon whose resistivity is above 0.1 Ωcm. (d) Take the center of the silicon as the measure area, and utilize GB/T 6618 to measure the sample thickness except for any special regulations. The center should be the same as original silicon slice, ensuring the sufﬁcient sample area, to avoid incident beam bypassing the sample. (e) The test sample and reference sample should be grinded in both sides and then polished to 2 mm or even less. (f) The thickness tolerance should be less than 0.005 mm. (g) The difference between test sample and reference sample should be less than 0.01 mm. 22 X. Liu et al. Procedure (a) Instrument examination: To measure the stability and noise level, establish 100% transmittance line. For double-beam instrument, record the transmit- tance spectra with both test and reference sample beams empty. For single- beam instrument, record the transmittance spectra as the ratio of two spectra when sample beam is empty. Draw the 100% baseline of the transmittance spectra from 500 cm1 to 700 cm1. If the baseline is still not up to 100% 0.5% range, then increase the test time to achieve the range; otherwise, adjust or repair the instrument. Establish 0% transmittance line. For dispersive (DIR) instrument, block the sample beam, and record the transmittance spectrum from 500 cm1 to 700 cm1. In getting a relative high non-zero signal among the range, check whether there is stray light cast onto the detector. If not, adjust or repair the instrument. Use the air reference ratio method to test the spectrogram of double-sided polished silicon single-crystal slice which has a resistivity of 5 Ω cm. Test the linearity of the instrument from the spectrum over the wavenumber (WN) range of 16002000 cm1. If the transmittance of these WN range is not 53.8% 2%, adjust the orientation of sample vertical to the axis of incident beam, and keep the inclined angle below 10. (b) Test the difference sample spectrum between room temperature and 77 K. Use a resolution of  2 cm1 to test the sample at 607.2 cm1 at room temperature, and use a resolution of 1 cm1 to test the sample at 607.5 cm1 at 77 K. Acquire spectrum: Make sure that infrared beam passing through the center of the test sample and reference sample. For double-beam instrument, put the sample onto the sample beam and the reference sample onto the reference beam, and test the absorption spectrum from 500 cm1 to 700 cm1, and for single- beam instrument, use the test sample spectrum and reference sample spectrum to calculate the absorption spectrum. Use the nitrogen and dry air to fully blow the instrument beam, and keep the relative humidity  20%. Sweep repeatedly no less than 64 times. In the above condition, measure the absorption spectrum test sample and reference sample, respectively, from 500 cm1 to 700 cm1. Calculation Carbon content N[C] is calculated as formula (6): N C ½ ¼ F  α (6) where: α = absorption coefﬁcient. N[C] = carbon content; unit, atoms per cubic centimeter (atoms/cm3). F = calibration factor; unit, atoms per square centimeter (atoms/cm2). F is 8.2  1016 (atoms/cm2) at 300 K and is 3.7  1016 (atoms/cm2) at 77 K. 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 23 The absorption coefﬁcient α can be calculated by Eq. (7): α ¼ 23:03=X ð Þ  Sp  Sb ð Þ (7) where: X = thickness of the test sample (mm) Sp = peak value of carbon absorbance spectrum Sb = baseline value of the carbon absorbance spectrum Polysilicon Minority Carrier Lifetime Detection Minority carrier lifetime is one of the most important characteristics of semiconduc- tor materials to understand the device performance and can be measured using pulsed light method or chopped light method, SEMI MF28-0707 (SEMI MF28- 0317 2017). Apparatus for Pulsed Light Method (a) Light source: The turnoff time of the pulsed light source should be such a way that the light intensity decreases to  10% of its maximum value in  0.2 times of the ﬁlament lifetime of the silicon sample to be measured. For silicon sample measurement, the maximum of the spectral distribution of the light source should be in the wavelength range within 1.01.1 μm. Xenon light tube or discharge tube is equipped with 0.01 μF capacitor and can provide the frequency of 260 Hz pulse high-voltage power supply. The maximum light intensity can be reached in  0.3 μs, and the light intensity decreases to less than 5% of its maximum value in 0.5 μs. The smaller capacitor can achieve shorter pulse width, which may be suitable for measuring ﬁlament lifetimes 0.5 μs. (b) Power supply: Power should be stable after ﬁltering at 5 V DC voltage. The current supply may act as a constant current or voltage source along with a nonreactive series resistance (Rs), which is around 20 times as large as combin- ing the values of sample resistance (R) and contact resistances (Rc). (c) Sample holder and thermostat: Heat insulation sample clamp and thermostat should be able to keep the sample at a constant temperature of 27C 1C. The sample holder should maintain Ohmic contact with the samples whole surfaces, and at least one side of the samples four sides should be lightened. Note: There are many procedures to make Ohmic contacts to the sample surface, but it is recommended to use pressure contacts of metal braid or ﬁber. Indium and thick lead plate can also be used for this purpose. (d) Filter is typically 1 mm thick and of the same material as the sample, and it should be double-sided polished, placed directly above the rectangle opening or diaphragm. 24 X. Liu et al. (e) The rectangle opening diaphragm: The diaphragm should be placed close to the sample, part area of the sample is lighted by the light through the diaphragm. Li = L/2 is the length of the lighted area of the sample and width Wi = W/2. Typically, lighted area is in the middle of the sample. (f) Electrical signal measuring circuit: (i) The preampliﬁer, with an adjustable range of high and low-frequency, and the low-frequency cutoff should be adjustable from 0.3 Hz to 30 Hz. (ii) The oscilloscope, scanning time and the sensitivity should be appropriate. Oscilloscope may have a continuously calibrated time sweep with accuracy and linearity that is better than 3% and triggering capability by test signals or external signals. For the oscilloscope with a 10 cm  10 cm screen size, the screen is ruled in cm2 to help reduce parallax. For the attenuation curve of the transparent screen, the height above the baseline decays exponentially following Eq. (8): y ¼ 6 exp x=2:5 ð Þ (8) where the x and y are the scale divisions of the graph. (g) The electronic circuit general requirements: (i) Vertical scanning deﬂection sensitivity correction to 0.1 mV/cm or less; (ii) correction gain and vertical scanning deﬂection linearity within 3%; (iii) for the response time, if the input signal changes in a stepwise manner, the output signals rise or fall time be 1/5 of the smallest ﬁlament lifetime; (iv) pulse had no obvious failure, such as the overshoot or damping effect. Sample Preparation (a) Sample size measuring: Record all size, accuracy to 0.1 mm. Micrometer or Vernier calipers can be used. Pulsed light method is suitable for bar-shaped samples: Type A (length  width  thickness = 15 mm  2.5 mm 2.5 mm), Type B (length  width  thickness = 25 mm  5.0 mm  5.0 mm), and Type C (length  width  thickness = 25 mm  10.0 mm  10.0 mm). Smaller samples are suitable for lower lifetime values. Type B is recommended for Czochralski silicon and Type C for ﬂoat zone silicon. (b) Grinding: Before the test, polish the sample with alumina powder until the six surfaces of the sample is smooth enough. Typically, the aluminum oxide particle sizes are 512 μm. (c) Cleaning: Clean the sample with ultrasonic water bath or rinse with ultrapure water, and dry with nitrogen, and make sure the sample surfaces are clean enough for circuit formation. (d) Ohmic contact: (i) Use the entire surfaces of the samples two ends to make Ohmic contacts. For germanium sample it is suggested to be plated with nickel, rhodium, or gold, and copper should be avoided in the coating process. For silicon samples, the best way is to heat the samples at 35 C, while rubbing the 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 25 samples end face at the same time, to prevent drip on gallium from gallium blot emery cloth. N-type silicon samples two ends with nickel plated, or p-type silicon samples with rhodium plated can also be used. (e) The contact point test: Place the sample in the clamp, then the current is switched on in one direction of the sample to produce voltage of 25 V, and record the voltage drop as V1. Change the direction of current, and record the voltage drop V2. If the difference of V1 and V2 is less than 5%, accept the sample. (f) Measure and record: According to GB/T 1551 (Li et al. 2009), measure and record and correct the resistivity to 27 C. If the sample conductive type is unknown, follow GB/T 1550 (Chen et al. 1997). Procedure (a) With the sample ﬁxture clamping and positioning in the diaphragm of the rectangular hole, the middle section of the sample is lighted. Measure and record the temperature of the sample clamp (accuracy 1 C). (b) Open the light source and, at the same time, preampliﬁer and oscilloscope to be connected. (c) Turn on the power, and adjust the current to generate 25 V of potential difference across the sample. (d) Make observed decay curve, occurring together with the reference exponential curve, as drawn on the oscilloscopes transparent screen by the method as follows: (i) for vertical displacement adjustment knob, observe the attenuation curve of the baseline overlap with standard index curve. Adjust the time benchmark scanning speed to the lower end; make multiple attenuation curve appear on the screen orientation. Extend the time reference signal to produce a single cycle pattern; adjust the horizontal displacement, vertical ampliﬁcation, and time benchmark scanning speed, as much as possible until the observed decay curve matches the standard index curve (exponential curve) closely with the pulse amplitude peak value consistent with standard non-traumatic line on the upper left point. (e) Test samples for inhomogeneity: shut off the current, keep light and other knobs unchanged, and observe whether the oscilloscope detects a voltage signal light. If detected signal is more than 1% of signal pulse peak, the sample should not be used for testing due to the inhomogeneities. (f) If no voltage signal is observed and the decay (light attenuation curve) is exponential, then the time constant of the decay can be determined as the ﬁlament lifetime τF (μs): τF ¼ 2:5S1 (9) where S1 is the time benchmark scanning speed (sweep speed) and the unit is microseconds per cm (μs/cm). 26 X. Liu et al. (g) If the oscilloscope doesnt have time benchmark calibration, standard index curve is not applicable, but the ﬁlament lifetime can be determined as follows: rotate the time benchmark scanning speed to a suitable degree value S2 (μs/cm); test on any two points on the decay curve of 2:1 oscillation ratio of the horizontal distance M (cm), the ﬁlament lifetime: τF ¼ 1:44  MS2 (10) When the screen does not have the standard curve, this step may be used. (h) When observed screen decay curve is not pure index curve but close to expo- nential curve, the apparent lifetime can be determined at the lower end of the curve. 1. When samples half or less width is already affected by light, the ﬁlament lifetime can be determined from signal attenuation to the peak after the voltage has decayed to 60% of the peak value. 2. When more than half of the sample width has been affected by light, the ﬁlament lifetime can be determined from signal attenuation to the peak after the voltage has decayed to 25% of the peak value. 3. During the above two cases, the vertical gain attenuation strip are increased to extend the decay curve, in this case, some specify part of a decay curve on the screen vertical full scale, by adjusting the time reference, a suitable value of S2 (μs /cm) can be scanned, to make a speciﬁed part of a decay curve up to the level of the screen full horizontal scale as far as possible, measure decay curve of the amplitude ratio of 2:1, measure distance between any two points as M (cm), and calculate the ﬁlament lifetime in Eq. (10). 4. Repeat the process two times; identify and record the average ﬁlament lifetime τF. If the values differ more than 10%, then the sample is not appropriate for the method. Note: Especially in the case of p-type silicon, the lifetime may change rapidly with the density of carrier, so for the wide range of lifetime, the mean value may deviate from the true values. (i) Check whether there is a trapping effect, which can be determined by the changes in the ﬁlament lifetime value from points on the decay curve below 25% of the decay curve peak (ΔV0). If lifetime value increases along the lower part of the curve, then there is a trap. Trapping effect can be eliminated by heating the sample to 5070C or with a stable background light. If trapping causes  5% to the decay curve, the sample cannot be measured by this method. (j) Check whether the carriers meet the sweep-out conditions at the ends of the sample, shut off the light source, and measure the DC voltage Vdc on the sample. Calculate the product of Vdc and τF if the value is not greater than the corresponding constant provided in Table 2; sweep-out effect is not signiﬁcant. Table 2 shows the constant of the recommended length of the sample. For other sample lengths, the condition is given in Eq. (11): 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 27 V dcτF  30 L=μ   (11) where: L = sample length; the unit is millimeter (mm). μ = minority carrier mobility; the unit is square centimeter per volt seconds (cm2/ Vs) (Table 2). τF = ﬁlament lifetime; the unit is microseconds (μs). If the sweep-out conditions are not met, this can reduce the sample current Vdc, this will change the curve shape, and the τF value will change as well. (k) Check whether the low injection level conditions are met. Use the same current value which can satisfy the sweep-out conditions, switch on the light, and measure the pulse amplitudes peak value (ΔV0). If ΔV0/Vdc  0.01 injection level is low for this method. If ΔV0/Vdc  0.01 ﬁlament lifetime correction is needed according to Eq. (12): τF ¼ τFmeas 1  ΔV 0=V dc ð Þ ½ (12) where: τFmeas = value of the ﬁlament lifetime as measured in the above item #f or calculated in item #h-(4) τF = corrected value of the ﬁlament lifetime Calculation (a) Low injection level bulk minority carrier lifetime can be calculated by Eq. (13): τb ¼ τF 1  RSF  1 (13) where: τb = bulk minority carrier lifetime, the unit is microseconds (μs). τF = ﬁlament lifetime, the unit is microseconds (μs). Table 2 Minority carrier mobility, cm2/Vs, and sweep-out condition constants for suggested sample lengths (SEMI MF28-0317 2017) Material Mobility Type A Type B and type C N-type Germanium 3800 7.3 12 N-type Germanium 1800 11 18 P-type silicon 1400 12 20 N-type silicon 470 20 35 28 X. Liu et al. RSF = surface recombination rate. Standard samples RSF are given in Table 3; unit is microseconds1 (μs1). (b) When samples are rectangular, RSF can be obtained by Eq. (14): RSF ¼ π2D L2 þ W 2 þ T 2   (14) where L = sample length, W = sample width, and T = sample thickness. (c) For right circular samples, the sample length is L, sample radius is r, and then the RSF can be obtained by Eq. (15): RSF ¼ π2 D L2 þ 9=16 r2     (15) where D = minority carrier diffusion coefﬁcient and the unit is square centimeters per second (cm2/s). Test Methods for Measuring Metallic Impurities and Surface Metallic Contamination in Polysilicon Metal impurities can be present in silicon in two forms. Metals can be present as substitutions for a silicon atom where it is surrounded by silicon atoms and/or as small samples of precipitate in the bulk of silicon. The concentration of silicon metal impurities can be measured by neutron activation analysis, mass spectrometry, atomic absorption spectrometry, and X-ray ﬂuorescence measurement. Neutron activation method can measure almost all metal impurities, but it requires a neutron radiation sources. Secondary ion mass spectroscopy (SIMS) is used to measure impurities in silicon. SIMS requires calibration standards to accurately quantify the metal concentration in silicon. SIMS has a lower detection limit of 1 ppb. Presently inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS) is used to measure low levels of metals in silicon. ICP-MS requires that the silicon be dissolved in a solution before analysis. Table 3 Surface recombination rate, RSF (μs1), (SEMI MF28-0317 2017) Material Type A Type B Type C P-type germanium 0.3230 0.00813 0.00215 N-type germanium 0.01575 0.00396 0.00105 P-type silicon 0.01120 0.00282 0.00075 N-type silicon 0.00420 0.00105 0.00028 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 29 Test Method for Measuring Metallic Impurity Contamination in Polysilicon Metal impurities can be determined by dry processes such as secondary ion mass spectrometry or neutron activation analysis. Wet methods of silicon analysis involved digesting silicon samples with a mixture of hydroﬂuoric acid and nitric acid and then carrying out the analysis with ICP-MS. Apparatus (a) Inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). (b) Analytical balance: sensitivity 0.1 mg. (c) Fume hood. (d) Containers: All containers shall be made of materials which are resistant to hydroﬂuoric acid, such as polytetraﬂuoroethylene (PTFE) or perﬂuoroalkoxy resin (PFA). (e) Electrically heated plate. Sample Preparation (a) Pulverize the chunk or chip polysilicon samples without introducing contaminates. (b) Treat the sample in a suitable concentration of hydroﬂuoric acid solution. If necessary, add the appropriate concentration of nitric acid solution, and then rinse with ultrapure water (surface cleaning is recommended for the bulk metal analysis). (c) Dry the sample at 100 C110 C. (d) Granular polysilicon can be used without grinding to ﬁne particles. Procedure (a) Sample amount: It is recommended to take samples according to Table 4, accurately to 0.1 mg; different experiments can be adjusted according to the actual situation. (b) Measurement times: Take the measurement three times independently for each sample, and choose the arithmetic mean of these three measurement results. (c) Blank test: Do blank test with the sample. (d) Standard solution preparation: For the mixed element standard solution, prepare it by mixing the standard storage solution of iron, chromium, nickel, copper, and zinc , then diluting the standard storage solution step-by-step (from mg/mL to ng/mL, the proper acidity shall be maintained during the process of dilution). The concentration of each element in this mixed element standard solution is 1 μg/mL. Standard series of working solution (or calibration standards) preparation: A 1000 μg/mL standard must be available for the analyte element and should be less than 1 year old. Respectively, add 0 μL, 50 μL, 100 μL, 300 μL, and 500 μL of mixed element standard solution into ﬁve clean 100 mL volumetric ﬂasks, then add 40 mL nitric acid solution separately, and use ultrapure DI water to ﬁll 30 X. Liu et al. the volumetric ﬂask to the mark. The concentrations of iron, chromium, nickel, copper, and zinc in these standard series of solutions are 0 μg/L, 0.50 μg/L, 1.00 μg/L, 3.00 μg/L, and 5.00μg/L, respectively. The concentrations of the standard series of working solutions should be as close as possible to the concentrations of the elements to be measured in the sample solution. For the yttrium standard solution preparation, take 100 μL of yttrium standard storage solution, place into a 100 mL volumetric ﬂask, add 40 mL nitric acid solution, dilute with ultrapure water to the mark, and shake. The concentration of this standard solution is 1 μg/mL. For the yttrium standard working solution prepa- ration, take 200 μL of yttrium standard solution, place into a 100 mL volumetric ﬂask, add 40 mL nitric acid solution, dilute with ultrapure water to the mark, and shake. The concentration of this standard working solution is 2 μg/mL. (e) Sample solution preparation: Place the sample into an open container, which should be clean and with a suitable volume. Add the suitable amount of nitric acid-hydroﬂuoric acid mixed solution according to Table 4, and dissolve the sample by heating. Evaporate the solution to dryness at 160170 C. After cooling at room temperature, add 4 mL mixture of nitric acid and hydroﬂuoric acid to dissolve the residues, and then evaporate the solution to dryness at 160170 C again. Add 4 mL nitric acid solution, fully shake, and ensure the residues are completely dissolved. Then transfer the solution to a 10 mL volumetric ﬂask, using the ultrapure water for volume constant, shake, and wait for ICP-MS measurement. (f) Instrumental analysis: Prior to testing, the inductively coupled plasma mass spec- trometry (ICP-MS) needs to be set in appropriate operating conditions and tuned to achieve the best test conditions. The elements to be analyzed in the sample and the internal standard elements isotopes should be selected according to Table 5. Analyze the blank solution, the sample solution, and the standard series of working solutions using the inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). Take the yttrium standard working solution as the internal standard, and use internal standard method for calibration. Make the calibration curves by using the ratios of the metal element contents to that of internal standard element in the standard series working solutions as the ordinate and using the concentrations of each element in the standard working solution as abscissa. The mass concentrations of each analyte in the blank solution and the sample solution will be automatically given by the ICP-MS. Other methods of quantitative analysis also can be used according to the situation. Table 4 Volume (mL) of acid mixture recommended to digest the amount of polysilicon sample (g) Single element impurity content (ng/g) Sample amount (g) Nitric acid-hydroﬂuoric acid mixed solution dosage (mL) 110 2 40 10100 1 20 100500 0.5 10 5002000 0.2 8 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 31 Calculation Calculate the mass fractions of the metallic impurities in the sample according to Eq. (16): wx ¼ C2-C1  V m (16) where: wx = mass fractions of Fe, Cr, Ni, Cu, and Zn in the sample; the unit is ng per gram (ng/g). C1 = concentrations of the elements to be measured in the blank solution; the unit is ng per milliliter (ng/mL). C2 = concentrations of the element to be measured in the sample solution; the unit is nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL). V = volume of the sample solution; the unit is milliliter (mL). m = mass of the sample; the unit is gram (g). Test Method for Measuring Surface Metallic Contamination in Polysilicon This test method is used to measure surface metal contamination on polysilicon chunks, SEMI MF1724-1104 (2004). Surface contamination can be used to monitor polysilicon production process. This method is the quantitative analysis of surface trace metals by using acid extraction of metals from the polysilicon surface. Metal content is analyzed by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS). This method can be used for polysilicon rod, chunk, granule, or single-crystal silicon. Due to the irregularity in shapes of chunks, granules, or chips, the quanti- tative analytical values are based on the sample weight. Typically, 50300 gm samples may be needed to achieve the detection limit around 0.01 parts per billion weight (ppbw). The temperature, exposure time, composition, or acid strength is the determining factor for the depth of surface etched or efﬁciency of the extraction process. It is recommended that 1% of the sample weight may be removed in this Table 5 Isotope selection summary table for ICP-MS Metal elements to be measured Internal standard elementa Element name Isotope Element name Isotope Element name Isotope Sodium 23Na Chromium 53Cr (A)(A)(A)(A)(A) Yttrium (A)(A)(A)(A) (A)89Y Magnesium 24Mg Iron 56Fe Aluminum 27Al Nickel 60Ni Potassium 39K Copper 63Cu Calcium 40Ca Zinc 66Zn Titanium 49Ti Molybdenum 96Mo aOther elements cannot be used as internal standard except yttrium due to matrix compatibility 32 X. Liu et al. test method. This method is suitable for silicon surface trace metal impurities, such as sodium, magnesium, aluminum, potassium, calcium, titanium, chromium, iron, nickel, copper, zinc, molybdenum, etc. The detection limit of the instrument is dependent on the dilution factor, spectral response to analyte, instrument sensitivity, acid recovery efﬁciency, blank data, and method interferences. Apparatus Follow the details as described in Section 2.8.1 (A). Sample Preparation (a) The sample preparation is carried out in a Class 6 clean room. Around 5 Kg polysilicon sample may be selected from a batch of products (or production lot) for the analysis. (b) To ensure the consistency of sample analysis and interlaboratory comparison of analytical values for bulk samples, a standard weight and volume are recommended. Select six chunk samples, each size is about 3 cm  3 cm  3 cm, and the weight is about 50 g each. The total weight of the sample is about 300 g. Procedure (a) In the clean room, transfer the chunks to a clean PTFE bottle. Weigh the samples (if sample size allowed, take about 50 g), measurement accuracy to 0.01 g. (b) Three measurements were carried out independently, at least one sample with an external surface, and the arithmetic mean of the three measurements was taken. (c) Blank test: Standard blank should be prepared with the sample. (d) Preparation of mixed element standard solution: Follow the details as described in Section 2.8.1 (C)-d. Use the standard storage solution of Na, Mg, Al, K, Ca, Ti, Cr, Fe, Ni, Cu, Zn, and Mo, and mix into a standard solution of mixed elements, where each element concentration is 1 μg/mL. Prepare the series working solutions for the calibration standards, control standards and blanks. (e) Preparation of sample solution: After weighing the sample, add 250 mL of acid etching mixture to cover the chunk samples, and close the lids. Place the bottles onto the electric heating plate at 70C for about 60 min constant temperature heating. Remove the heat, cool it to room temperature, remove the chunks, and rinse the surface with ultrapure DI water into the bottle. The bottle with the leaching solution is heated on a hot plate at 120150C to dryness. Remove the bottle from the hot plate; cover the surface of the dish, after cooling at room temperature; and add 4 mL of 5% nitric acid solution. Transfer the solution to a 10 mL volumetric ﬂask, use ultrapure water to make the volume to the mark, shake, and the solution is ready for the ICP-MS analysis. (f) Instrumental analysis: Follow the details as described in Section 2.8.1 (C)-f. Calculation Follow the details as described in Section 2.8.1 (D). 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 33 Raw Materials and Other Test Methods Metallurgical-Grade Silicon Test Methods The feedstock for polysilicon production is metallurgical-grade (MG) silicon, with certain requirement of purity, usually more than 99% of silicon. The impurities in the metallurgical-grade silicon mainly include silica, carbonaceous reactants, and metal- lic impurities such as iron, aluminum, calcium, carbon, etc. Metallic impurities of iron, aluminum, and calcium can be measured with two of the following methods. One is ICP-OES testing method, in which the sample is dissolved with acid and the solution is then analyzed with ICP-OES. The other method is ﬂuorescence spectroscopy. Dry process using compression pressure prototype test method, the X-ray spec- trum emitted by secondary excitation wavelength, and its intensity can be used for qualitative and quantitative analyses. Activated by the primary X-ray beam in the light tube on the sample, each element in the sample generates respective character- istics of secondary radiation. This secondary radiation passes through the collimator to the spectral crystal, only the radiation with special wavelength which satisﬁes the diffraction condition is strengthened, while the rest with different wavelength radi- ation are weakened. Carbon content in the metallurgical silicon can be determined under the action of propellants and the sample with the oxygen ﬂow inside a high-frequency induction furnace heating combustion method. Carbon is converted to carbon dioxide (CO2) and carbon monoxide(CO), carried by the oxygen to the measuring chamber, and the intensity of special wavelength is detected by infrared detector. The absorption is proportional to the concentration of total carbon content in the sample. Trichlorosilane Test Methods Trichlorosilane (TCS or SiHCl3) puriﬁcation is an important part of silicon manufacturing process. TCS and silane are produced from MG-Si and HCl reaction followed by distillation process to purify them from volatile compounds. During distillation process the impurities can be reduced from 107 to 1010 orders of magnitude. Using gas chromatographic, various chlorosilane components (dichlorosilane, silicon tetrachloride, etc.) and HCl can be separated in the chromatographic column. The quantitative measurements of these components can be performed by using external known standard and by area normalization method. P content can be tested by gas chromatography using ﬂame photometric detector (FPD). Trace element analysis is an important means of monitoring the distillation efﬁciency. TCS monitoring after the puriﬁcation can be done in two ways: (i) by growing polysilicon rod in a small reduction furnace to test the polysilicon, (ii) by collecting TCS impurities as acid soluble and using ICP-OES or ICP-MS for metallic impurity analysis. 34 X. Liu et al. High-Purity Gas Test Method In polysilicon production process, the main use of high-purity gas is hydrogen. High-purity gas may have trace impurities such as oxygen, carbon monoxide, argon, nitrogen, etc. Trace impurities can be quantitatively measured using gas chromatog- raphy (GC). Moisture content can be monitored using the dew-point meter or moisture analyzer. GB/T 3634.2-2011 (Wang et al. 2011) standards can be followed for pure hydro- gen, high-purity hydrogen, and super pure hydrogen analysis. GB/T 8979-2008 (He et al. 2008) standards can be followed for pure nitrogen, high-purity nitrogen, and ultrapure nitrogen analysis. These two standards specify how to analyze the physical parameters of high-purity gases and impurities. High-Purity Water Test Method Ultrapure deionized water is used in the solar and semiconductor industries. Impurity content in water can be divided into two types: conductive impurities and non-conductive impurities. To make high-purity water, remove the non-conductive impurities and then conductive impurities. The impurity content in pure water can be analyzed by ICP-MS. Ambient Air Test Method The handling and manipulation of polysilicon materials needs to be done in a clean environment. The clean room air should be monitored routinely, and the classiﬁca- tion is dependent on the number of particles measured with method ISO 14644- 1 (2015). Packing Material Test Methods Polysilicon is a very high-purity material. Polysilicon manufacturer is very strict with its packaging materials. High-quality and clean packaging materials are critical to reduce or eliminate impurities. Packaging materials and their impacts on surface contamination of polysilicon should be monitored using ICP-MS or ICP-OES for trace-level impurities. The details can be referenced to SEMI-PV74-0216 (2016). Conclusion This chapter introduces the characterization methods of polysilicon materials. Float zone (FZ) process is used to obtain monocrystalline silicon from polycrystalline chunk and granular silicon materials. The analytical detection principles and 2 Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 35 processes including the type of analytical equipment used for impurity analysis are described. Donor and acceptor quantiﬁcation; conductivity and resistivity measure- ments; determination of interstitial oxygen and substitutional atomic carbon content; minority carrier lifetime; measurements of bulk and surface metallic impurities, etc.; and various analytical methodologies are described. Detection technologies for raw materials such as MG silicon and trichlorosilanes are also introduced in this chapter. References Y. Chen, W. Liu, F. Wu, GB/T 15501997 Standard methods for measuring conductivity type of extrinsic semiconducting material (1997) D. He, Y. Chen, M. Tian, H. Li, GB/T 8979-2008 Pure nitrogen and high purity nitrogen and ultra- pure nitrogen (2008) I. He, Y. Wang, H. Zhang, Y. Liu, GB/T 1554-2009 Testing method for crystallographic perfection of silicon by preferential etch techniques (2009) ISO 14644-1:2015 Clean rooms and associated controlled environments  part 1: classiﬁcation of air cleanliness by particle concentration (2015). https://www.iso.org/standard/53394.html J. Li, X. He, J. Zhang, S. Duan, GB/T1551-2009 Test method for measuring resistivity of monocrystalline silicon (2009) L. Luo, H. Liang, R. Tan, Y. Wang, X. Wang, GB/T 4060-2007 Polycrystalline silicon  examina- tion method -vacuum zone-melting on boron (2007) SEMI MF1391-1107 (reapproved 0912) Test method for substitutional atomic carbon content of silicon by infrared absorption (2012) SEMI MF1630-1107 Test method for low temperature FT-IR analysis of single crystal silicon for III-V impurities (2012) SEMI MF1708-1104 Practice for evaluation of granular polysilicon by Melter-Zoner spectroscopies (2004) SEMI MF1724-1104 Test method for measuring surface metal contamination of polycrystalline silicon by acid extraction-atomic absorption spectroscopy (2004) SEMI MF28-0317 Test methods for minority carrier lifetime in bulk germanium and silicon by measurement of photoconductivity decay (2017) SEMI PV17-1012 Speciﬁcation for virgin silicon feedstock materials for photovoltaic applications (2012) SEMI PV74-0216 Test method for the measurement of chlorine in silicon by ion chromatography (2016) S. Wang, T. Cai, T. Shen, W. Shen, J. Chen, H. Fang, J. Zhang, GB/T 3634.2-2011 Hydrogen-Part 2: pure hydrogen, high pure hydrogen and ultrapure hydrogen (2011) X. Yang, I. He, GB/T 1555-2009 Testing methods for determining the orientation of a semicon- ductor single crystal (2009) Y. Yang, J. Yuan, S. Sun, J. Liu, D. He, Y. Wang, J. Liu, Y. Cao, H. Liang, GB/T25074-2010 Solar grade polysilicon (2010) 36 X. Liu et al. Siemens Process 3 Dazhou Yan Contents Introduction ....................................................................................... 38 Process Overview ............................................................................. 38 Synthesis of Trichlorosilane (TCS) ........................................................... 39 Distillation and Puriﬁcation of TCS .......................................................... 42 TCS Decomposition and Reduction .......................................................... 47 Vent Gas Recovery ............................................................................ 58 STC Hydrogenation ........................................................................... 60 Recycling of By-product Dichlorosilane (DCS) ............................................. 64 Filament Preparation .......................................................................... 65 Comprehensive Utilization of By-produced Energy ......................................... 66 Conclusion ........................................................................................ 67 References ........................................................................................ 67 Abstract Polysilicon is the elementary raw material for integrated circuits and photovoltaic products. In recent years, the technology of polysilicon made great progress, its cost dramatically reduced, and it provided ideal conditions for photovoltaic energy power to meet the state-set price. This chapter summarizes the achieve- ments of Siemens process, including the technology process, the technical prin- ciple, main equipment, technological operations, polysilicon quality control, energy-saving feature, and cost reduction. This could be used as a reference for the production of polysilicon. D. Yan (*) China ENFI Engineering Corp, Beijing, China China Silicon Corporation Ltd., Luoyang, Henan, China e-mail: yandz@enﬁ.com.cn  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_4 37 Keywords Polysilicon  Siemens process  TCS synthesis  TCS distillation and puriﬁcation  CVD reactor  Vent gas recovery  STC hydrogenation  Comprehensive utilization of by-product Introduction This chapter describes the process of preparation of high-purity polysilicon. Metal-grade silicon as the raw material reacts with hydrogen chloride to produce trichlorosilane (TCS); after distillation and puriﬁcation, trichlorosilane deposits on the ﬁlament of high-purity silicon to obtain polysilicon at the temperature of 1050 C in a high-purity hydrogen envi- ronment. The sections of this chapter discuss TCS synthesis, TCS distillation and puriﬁcation, TCS decomposition and hydrogen reduction in CVD reactor, vent gas recovery, STC hydrogenation, comprehensive utilization of other by-products, ﬁlament preparation, and comprehensive utilization of by-produced energy. Technical contents including the principles, reaction conditions, major equipment, materials, energy consumption, and so on are the reference for scholars and engineers engaged in teaching, research, and production of polysilicon. Process Overview The global polysilicon output was 370,000 t (Bohua Wang 2017) in 2016, of which the output by using Siemens process (trichlorosilane process) accounts for more than 90%. Siemens process is still the mainstream of polysilicon production process in the world today. Siemens process uses metallic silicon powder containing approximately 98.5% of silicon and 1.5% of B, P, C, Fe, Al, Ca, Cu, Ni, Zn, and other metal impurities as the feed, which reacts with HCl to produce TCS, STC, and various impurity chlorides. By taking advantage of the difference in boiling point between TCS and impurity chlorides, the process then separates the impurity chlorides from TCS through distillation and puriﬁcation to ultimately obtain high-purity TCS, which is then subjected to reduction and decomposition reactions in high-purity hydrogen envi- ronment, and deposits on the ﬁlament to obtain high-purity polysilicon. See Fig. 1 for the process ﬂow. The main processes include TCS synthesis, TCS distillation and puriﬁcation, TCS decomposition and hydrogen reduction, vent gas recovery, STC hydrogenation, comprehensive utilization of other by-products (dichlorosilane, hydrogen chloride, and hydrogen), ﬁlament preparation, and comprehensive utilization of by-produced energy. 38 D. Yan Synthesis of Trichlorosilane (TCS) Preparation of Hydrogen Chloride (HCL) Hydrogen chloride (HCL), with a molecular weight of 36.5, is a pungent odor gas, and it is water-soluble to generate hydrochloric acid, having strong corrosivity upon contact with water. Hydrogen chloride can be generated through burning chlorine with hydrogen and the reaction equation is as follows: H2 þ Cl2 ! 2HCl þ 43:83 kcal=mol The produced hydrogen chloride contains a small amount of water, which shall be separated and removed through dehydrofrosting methods. Preparation conditions: 1. Application pressure of H2 and Cl2 shall be lower than 0.8 Kg/cm2 2. H2Cl2 equals to 1.1:1 (volume ratio), and the volume of H2 slightly exceeds that of Cl2 for its full reaction, so as to prevent generation of free chlorine 3. Purity requirements: H2 98%, Cl2 96%, HCl 96%, moisture in HCl 0.050.1%, and free chlorine 0.02% 4. The temperature of synthesis reactor outlet shall be within 280450 C; other- wise, the excess temperature will exacerbate the reaction in reactor even causing an explosion. Besides, it will exacerbate corrosiveness of the synthesis reactor. Synthesis of TCS 1. Properties of TCS At normal temperature, puriﬁed trichlorosilane (SiHCl3) is a colorless, transpar- ent, volatile, and ﬂammable liquid, with strong pungent odor, and its chemical characteristics are as follows: 98.5% H2 Polysilicon TCS Synthesis TCS distillation and purification TCS decomposition and hydrogen reduction Finishing & packing Vent gas recovery SiHCl3 HCl SiCl4 Hydrogenation HCl MG Si Fig. 1 Improved Siemens process ﬂow 3 Siemens Process 39 (a) Easily hydrolyzable, deliquescent, and forms intensive fumes in the air. Hydrolysis reaction is as below: SiHCl3 þ 1=2O2 þ H2O ! SiO2 þ 3HCl  Highly volatile and easily gasiﬁed with a low boiling point (b) Easily prepared and reduced (c) Highly combustible and explosive, with ignition point of 28 C and ignition temperature of 220 C, producing hydrogen chloride and chlorine while burning; its chemical reaction equation is as below: SiHCl3 þ O2 ! SiO2 þ HCl  þCl2  (d) Extremely steady to metals, even not reacting with sodium (e) Its vapor is hypotoxic 2. TCS synthesis process Silicon powder reacts with hydrogen chloride in the ﬂuidized bed reactor to produce SiHCl3 and its reaction equation is as below: Si þ 3HCl ! 280  320C ð ÞSiHCl3 þ H2 þ 50 kcal=mol (1) The reaction is exothermic and the reaction heat shall be extracted in real time, so as to maintain reaction temperature in the reactor between 280 C and 320 C and improve product quality and actual recovery. As the temperature rises, the quantity of produced SiCl4 will increase and massive SiCl4 will be produced while it exceeds 350 C, with its reaction equation as following: Si þ 4HCl !  350C ð ÞSiCl4 þ 2H2 þ 54:6 kcal=mol (2) If the temperature is improperly controlled, there may be more than 50% of SiCl4 produced, as well as various chlorosilane and polyethylene halide compounds. The predominant reaction in the reactor is Si þ 7HCl ¼ SiHCl3 þ SiCl4 þ 3H2 (3) The mole ratio of SiHCl3 (TCS) to SiCl4 (STC) can be varied by controlling the reactor temperature. 3. TCS synthesis process and main equipment The ﬂuidized bed reactor is generally used for TCS synthesis reactor. See Fig. 2 for its process ﬂow. The chlorinator is a ﬂuidized bed reactor. Metallurgical grade Si powder is fed to the middle of the reactor. HCl gas and some recycled gas from the hydrogen recycle plant and the distillation towers are also introduced to the bottom of the reactor through a gas distributor plate. 40 D. Yan Since the reaction is exothermic, the reaction zone must be cooled by an external cooling media. The condenser pipe, with circulation cooling medium, used to regulate the temperature. 4. Separation of synthetic product and recycling of tail gas The reaction products containing TCS, STC, HCl, and H2 with entrained solid particles ﬁrst go through a cyclone, where most of the unreacted solids and some condensed metallic chlorides are removed. The collected dust from the cyclone is treated as solid waste. Synthetic products are ﬁrstly condensed through 35 C refrigerants to obtain mixtures of TCS and STC, and then they are sent for crude distillation, separation, and puriﬁcation. The rest gas is collected for recovery. See Table 1 for compo- nents of the typical tail gas. Upon process requirements, components shall be separated and recycled without any intervention from foreign ingredients. The separation process mainly relies on the difference of boiling point, the performance, and the molecular polarity. Chlorosilane is recycled through compression and condensation, using the adsorp- tion characteristics of activated carbon, control adsorption conditions, and H2 and HCl in tail gas. After adsorption reaches a certain extent, chlorosilane is desorbed Me-Si Steam Dryer Bag filter AlCl3 Removal Column Feed Hopper Chlorination Chlorination Reactor Reactor Bag House filters Heat Transfer oil Temp Control to Reactor Internals Cyclone To Cyclone P P Me-Si bag HCL From Synthesis Scrubber Cooler Heater Expansion Tank Feed Hoppe Hoist To Wash Column Salt Feed Salt Washer Wash Water Sump To Waste Water Treatment Fig. 2 Chlorination process ﬂow Table 1 Typical chemical analysis of synthesis tail gas Component H2 HCl SiHCl3 SiCl4 Total Content (%) 53.97 43.49 1.39 1.15 100 3 Siemens Process 41 and recycled. At last, recycle chlorosilane through compression, condensation, and separation. Puriﬁed H2 and HCl either can be sent to HCl synthesis system or TCS synthesis system, or be absorbed by water for acid preparation. The entire process is free of materials discharged to the outside, which fundamentally solves environ- mental issues. Distillation and Purification of TCS Requirements of Polysilicon for TCS Quality In the production process of polysilicon, its raw material TCS may be extracted from composite materials, hydride materials, dry recovered materials with tail gas reduction, and so on. These materials may contain chlorides and complexes as shown in Table 2, with contents from level ppm to level ppb, and they shall be puriﬁed to appropriate contents, ensuring polysilicon quality. According to poly- silicon quality requirements, presume and calculate the corresponding relation among B&P impurities concentration in ﬁnal high-purity TCS and polysilicon quality index under reaction atmosphere, temperature, and pressure in the reactor. See Table 3 (Standardization administration of the peoples republic of China 2014, 2016). Moreover, metallic contamination in polysilicon is closely related to the material, mainly including TCS and hydrogen. Given the low probability of introduced metallic impurities in hydrogen, impurities in TCS consequently become the main contamination sources in polycrystalline substrates. The corresponding relation, as Table 2 Properties of impurity halides and complexes in TCS Complex Boiling point C Complex Boiling point C Complex Boiling point C SiH3Cl 10.0 CHCl: CHCl 48.4 PSCl3 125 SiH2Cl2 8.2 C3H7PH2 50-53 TiCl4 135.8 CH3BCl2 11.2 P2H4 56 PCl5 160 (sublimation) BCl3 12.1 (CH3)3SiCl 57 SbCl5 172 PFCl2 13.9 SiCl4 57 PH3 .BCl3 180 B2H 18.0 CH3Cl 61.2 AlCl3 180 (sublimation) PO2F6Cl 21-23 B2Cl4 65.5 SbCl3 216 (CH3)2PH 21.5-25 CH3SiCl3 66.4 FeCl3 315 SiHCl3 31.5 PCl3 76 ZnCl2 732 CH3:CCl2 37 CCl4 76.8 CuCl2 1359 (CH3)3P 37.8 CH3PCl3 77-79 MgCl2 CH3SiHCl3 41 POCl3 105.8 B5H9 48 CrO2Cl2 116.3 42 D. Yan shown in Table 4, between TCS and polycrystalline base metal is determined through theoretical calculation and practical operation. Impurities in TCS are mainly removed through distillation and impurity contents vary with TCS sources. Therefore, separation and puriﬁcation conditions differ from one another and multiple systems are set accordingly to meet separation, crude distillation, distillation, and puriﬁcation requirements. Typical TCS Distillation and Purification System Typical TCS puriﬁcation tower consists of synthetic crude distillation, hydrogenated crude distillation, recovery tower, dry separating tower, and distillation tower. Select sieve-plate tower or ﬁlled tower according to material whether containing solid particles or substances with high boiling points. Generally, crude distillation chooses sieve-plate tower, distillation chooses packed tower. 1. Synthetic and hydrogenated crude distillation puriﬁcation system TCS in synthetic materials is with content between 80% and 85% and that in hydrogenated condensed materials between 20% and 25%; the others include STC and various chloride impurities, and it may include solid particles. Conse- quently, the sieve-plate tower is applicable to crude distillation. See Fig. 3 for separation and puriﬁcation process: The crude distillation tower, processing condensed materials for synthesis and hydrogenation reaction, commonly consists of two towers to separate SiHCl3 from SiCl4, and to distill off TCS (crude distillation product) at top of Tower 2#, Table 3 Relation between polysilicon quality and TCS quality Item Relation between boron impurity and raw material Relation between phosphorus impurity and raw material Polysilicon quality level Polysilicon ppba Polysilicon ppbw TCS ppbw Polysilicon ppba Polysilicon ppbw TCS ppbw Electronic grade level I 0.05 0.020 0.004 0.15 0.166 0.034 Electronic grade level II 0.08 0.031 0.006 0.25 0.277 0.057 Electronic grade level III 0.10 0.039 0.008 0.30 0.332 0.069 Super PV level 0.18 0.07 0.03 0.75 0.830 0.17 PV level I 0.26 0.102 0.021 1.24 1.373 0.284 PV level II 0.54 0.212 0.044 3.00 3.321 0.686 PV level III 1.32 0.519 0.107 6.32 6.997 1.446 Table 4 Relation between polysilicon metal impurity and TCS quality Item Total metallic contamination of Fe, Cr, Ni, Cu, and Zn Total metals of polysilicon (ng/g) 10 20 30 50 100 200 Total metals of TCS (ng/g) 2.07 4.13 6.20 10.33 20.66 41.32 3 Siemens Process 43 with the content of SiHCl399%. The rest HCl and SiCl4, as the materials, are sent to distillation feed tank for further puriﬁcation. 2. Distillation tower The distillation tower consists of three packed towers and its rectifying materials mainly include outsourcing materials, hydrogenated crude distillation products, and recovery tower products. Main components of the materials include SiHCl398%, a small amount of SiCl4, and HCl. SiHCl3 in products from the bottom of Tower 3# reaches 99.95% after distillation, and it also includes a minor amount of HCl and other impurities. The products, as raw materials, are sent to distillation product tank for storage and the ﬂow diagram is as shown in Fig. 4 3. Vent gas recovery material distillation tower Vent gas recovery material distillation tower consists of two packed towers mainly used for processing vent gas recovery material recycling materials in the raw material plant. The purity of SiHCl3 in product almost reaches 100% after vent gas recovery material distillation while it also contains a small amount of dichlorosilane, which may be used as the raw material of reduction plant. SiCl4 in high boiling point material of Tower 2#, with content 99.9%, maybe as the hydrogenation material. See Fig. 5 for vent gas recovery material distillation tower: 4. Recovery tower Recovery tower consists of three towers mainly used for processing materials with low purity, typical components include HCl 0.05%, SiH2Cl2 1.6%, SiHCl3 Distillation (I) feed tank Crude distillation Column 1# Low boiling Recovery column feed tank Crude distillation Column 2# Low boiling (product) Intermediate high boiling point SiCl4storage tank Residual liquid tank Condensed material Fig. 3 Synthesis and hydrogenated crude distillation ﬂow Column 1# Column 2# Column 3# High boiling Low boiling Low boiling High boiling Recovery column feed tank Recovery column feed tank Recovery column feed tank distillation product tank Outsourcing material Hydrogenated crude distillation product Recovery column product Low boiling High boiling (product) Fig. 4 Distillation ﬂow 44 D. Yan 70.0%, and SiCl4. Tower 1# and 2#, with a feed of high boiling point material recycled, are sieve-plate towers and Tower 3# is packed tower. Distillated product from the top of Tower 3# includes SiHCl399.9% and a small amount of HCl, and the product is sent to the distillation tower for further SiHCl3 puriﬁcation. Distilled product from the tower bottom contains SiCl499.8% and a small amount of SiHCl3, which will be sent for dehydrogenation reaction. See Fig. 6 for recovery tower ﬂow 5. Differential pressure thermal coupling distillation technology For the differential pressure thermal coupling distillation technology, pinch technology is adopted to adjust pressure of two towers and to use overhead vapor from the high-pressure tower as the heat source for liquid at bottom of the low-pressure tower through technical optimization and matching, so as to complete cooling and heating load exchange inside of tower groups for full energy utilization. Overhead vapors from the high-pressure tower will not directly enter condenser but shell side of condensation reboiler, and condensated materials will enter auxiliary condenser for further condensation, so as to ensure that materials are fully condensed to liquids or to subcooled substances; liquid in bottom of the low-pressure tower will be vaporized through tube side of con- denser reboiler, and the cold source required for the condensation of overhead vapor from high-pressure tower and the heat source necessary for vaporization of Column 1# Column 2# Low boiling High boiling Separation column feed tank Low boiling (product) High boiling vent gas recovery material recycling material Hydrogenated SiCl4 storage tank Dry distillation product tank Fig. 5 Vent gas recovery material distillation tower ﬂow Column 1# Column 2# Column 3# Low boiling point Low boiling point high boiling point high boiling point Outsourcing low-boiling tank outsourcing low-boiling tank Rectification (I) feed tank Hydrogenation SiCl4tank Hydrogenated crude distillation column low- boiling material Separation column low- boiling material Distillation column high and low boiling material Residual liquid from vaporizer Tail gas collector condensed material Low boiling point (product) High boiling point Fig. 6 Recovery tower process ﬂow 3 Siemens Process 45 liquid in bottom of the low-pressure tower are neither needed in the process. Consequently, 4050% energy consumption is reduced (Jiang et al. 2010). It is shown in Fig. 7. In order to recycle heat quantity of reduction system and further reduce energy consumption, pressure of the ﬁrst distillation tower is adjusted to ensure overhead vapors temperature within 5070 C, enabling the common circulating water used as cold source for condenser; pressure of the second distillation tower is adjusted to ensure the average temperature difference, between temperature of overhead vapor from the second distillation tower and the bottom of the ﬁrst distillation tower, is within 1530 C, so as to meet heat exchange temperature difference requirements between them. Moreover, it shall be ensured that the high-temperature water, cooling medium of reduction process, can be used as the heat source for the second distillation tower, so as to enable cooling and heating load exchange between puriﬁcation process and reduction process and reduce polysilicon costs as many as possible. Multi-tower-system differential pressure thermal coupling distillation technol- ogy integrates single-tower-group differential pressure thermal coupling technol- ogy with interelement two-tower parallel differential pressure thermal coupling technology and continuous differential pressure thermal coupling among tower groups of towers and multi-group tower differential pressure thermal coupling among different towers of different tower groups are achieved through optimiza- tion of technology, equipment conﬁguration, and pipings. See Fig. 8 for the process of differential pressure thermal coupling technology used for two groups of tower systems: As shown in the ﬂow diagram, two groups of distillation towers consist of three towers respectively, in which differential pressure thermal coupling technology is all adopted between Tower 1 and 2 in the ﬁrst distillation tower group, Tower 1 and 2 in the second distillation tower group, Tower 3 in the ﬁrst distillation tower group and Fig. 7 Differential pressure thermal coupling distillation and puriﬁcation process 46 D. Yan Tower 3 in the second distillation tower group. Namely, the cold source is applicable to Tower 1 and 3 in the ﬁrst distillation tower group as well as Tower 1 in the second distillation tower group while the heat source is used for Tower 2 in the ﬁrst distillation tower group as well as Tower 2 and 3 in the second distillation tower group. This will minimize energy consumption of the entire distillation and puriﬁ- cation system, with reduced energy consumption between 50% and 80%, and will reduce polysilicon costs as many as possible. TCS Decomposition and Reduction Overview of Polysilicon Deposition Process High-purity hydrogen and high-purity gaseous chlorosilane (TCS, DCS) are intro- duced into the CVD reactor in a certain proportion, and chemical vapor deposition reaction takes place on the surface of high-temperature ﬁlament carrier (about 1050 C) to obtain high-purity polysilicon products; meanwhile, the by-product vent gas in the reactor is discharged out of the system and then enters the follow- up process for material recovery. See Fig. 9 for a sketch showing the speciﬁc deposition process. The reactions in the reduction reactor are very complicated during the operation. TCSs hydrogen reduction reaction and thermal decomposition reaction are the main reactions, and others are side reactions. Fig. 8 Process of multi- tower-system thermal coupling distillation and puriﬁcation 3 Siemens Process 47 The main reaction equations are as follows: SiHCl3 þ H2 ! Si þ 3HCl hydrogen reduction reaction ð Þ (4) 2SiHCl3 ! Si þ SiCl4 þ 2HCl thermal decomposition reaction ð Þ (5) The side reaction equations are as follows: SiHCl3 ! HCl þ SiCl2 900  1000 C   (6) 2SiHCl3 ! SiH2Cl2 þ SiCl4 (7) 4SiHCl3 ! Si þ 3SiCl4 þ 2H2 thermal decomposition ð Þ (8) SiCl4 þ 2H2 ! Si þ 4HCl high temperature ð Þ (9) Si þ 4HCl ! 2H2 þ SiCl4 corrosion ð Þ (10) Reduction reaction of impurities: r H2 N2 TCS Evaporator CVD Reactor From TCS Supply Tank Condensate Cooling Water Reactor Vent Gas to Hydrogen Recycle Steam Cooling water Power to rods H2 Cooling Water Fig. 9 CVD reduction process 48 D. Yan 2BCl3 þ 3H2 ¼ 2B þ 6HCl (11) 2PCl3 þ 3H2 ¼ 2P þ 6HCl (12) Analysis of Factors Affecting Polysilicon Deposition Polysilicon deposition in the reactor is a sophisticated physicochemical process and its effective deposition is closely related to structure and type of the reactor, feed ratio, reactor temperature, reactor pressure, structure and type of nozzle, and current- voltage curve, and those factors are inter-conditioned and interactive; theoretical research of polycrystalline silicon deposition indicates that high-efﬁciency poly- silicon deposition will not be realized unless above factors are controlled under the optimal matching state. See Figs. 10 and 11 (Yan et al. 2016) for the reaction process: 1. Feed ratio The feed gas ratio refers to the mole ratio of hydrogen to TCS in materials entering the reactor. During polysilicon deposition, TCS concentration directly depends on the feed gas ratio. Namely, higher the feed ratio is, more hydrogen is. It tends to form a strong reducing atmosphere, contributing to the reduction of material consumption (TCS) costs. The increase of the feed gas ratio means the presence of more hydrogen, and more hydrogen means more adequate reduction reaction of SiHCl3 and restrained generation of SiCl4. However, excessive ratio will dilute concentration of the reaction mass (TCS) and reduce the growth rate of silicon rod, and will increase power consumption and also cause waste of hydrogen. Therefore, feed gas ratio is limited in a certain range of practical processes and the optimum ratio shall be adopted during reactions. Fig. 10 Vapor deposition on silicon rod surface 3 Siemens Process 49 Through analog computation, material components in products will vary with different feed ratio (the mole ratio of hydrogen to TCS) in the reactor if the TCS in the feed is 1 kmol/h as shown in Fig. 12. As shown in the above ﬁgure, hydrogen concentration in the reactor increases as the feed ratio rises, which restrains the thermal decomposition reaction and the hydrogen reduction reaction prevails. Consequently, the primary conversion rate of chlorosilane improves. Even so, the feed ratio shall not be too high, and main reasons include: Fig. 11 Polysilicon rod surface growth schematic diagram Fig. 12 Product components under different feed ratios 50 D. Yan (a) Excessive hydrogen will dilute chlorosilane and reduce reactant concentra- tion, which will reduce the probability that chlorosilane molecule impacts silicon rod surface as well as polysilicon deposition velocity. Namely, the polysilicon output is reduced due to that. (b) High hydrogen ratio will increase the load of the subsequent tail-gas treat- ment system and it is negative for energy conservation of the entire system. In practical production, the determined mole ratio of hydrogen to TCS is between 1.5 and 3.5, and the ratio may be adjusted accordingly as the polysilicon diameter varies in production process. In feeding process, dichlorosilane (DCS) may also be added to facilitate polysilicon deposition in the reactor, so as to restrain the side reaction in the reactor and to reduce power consumption and material consumption. 2. Reaction temperature TCS reduction and decomposition reaction are both endothermic, as a result, increased reaction temperature will accelerate the reaction and will also improve deposition rate of silicon. However, silicon deposition is a physical crystallization process, and when the reaction temperature is higher than the crystallization temperature, the deposition and crystallization rate decreases on the contrary as the reaction temperature increases. Therefore, the temperature of silicon rod carrier in the reactor is controlled by reaction equilibrium temperature to the maximum temperature, with optimum deposition temperature between 1050 and 1080 C. The deposition rate will increase as the temperature rises within the temperature range. See Fig. 13 for the process. 3. Reaction pressure Vapor deposition occurs in the reactor, and the chemical vapor deposition reaction may come to an end after the feed gas stays in the reactor for 520 s. Molecular collision probability will be improved by boosting pressure, so as to Fig. 13 Deposition rate of polysilicon over temperature 3 Siemens Process 51 accelerate the deposition rate. As shown in chemical reactions (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9) in the reactor, the equilibrium tends to be adverse to polysilicon deposition with the increase of pressure, while low pressure, resulting in a decrease of molecular collision probability, is also adverse to polysilicon deposition. Therefore, operating pressure of the reactor shall be controlled and the industrially proven pressure, facilitating polysilicon deposition, is between 0.5 MPa to 0.6 MPa. 4. Gas ﬂow ﬁeld During polysilicon production, its diameter constantly changes in the reactor, requiring feed gas to vary accordingly, so as to ensure the optimum polysilicon growth rate, the maximum output, and the minimum energy consumption, including gas ﬂow control and gas ﬂow rate control. (a) Gas ﬂow control Given constant reactor volume, an increase of gas mixture in the reactor will also improve collision probability between TCS gas and silicon rod. Mean- while, rapid deposition of silicon particles on the surface of silicon ﬁlament carrier increases silicon rod diameter and also enlarges carrier deposition area that provides spaces for deposition of silicon particles and so repeated. Consequently, silicon rod growth is accelerated, its growth cycle is short- ened and polysilicon output in a single reactor is improved. Besides, inten- siﬁed gas turbulence, caused by gas disturbance in the reactor after increasing feed, enables removing HCl gas blanket above silicon rod surface. According to practical production, increased gas feed results in reduced unit power consumption, shortened deposition time, prolonged operation cycle of reactor, increased operation time, and improved annual output capacity. However, when the feed rate is increased to a very high level, this will result in increased reaction intensity in reactor and accelerated depo- sition rate of silicon particle, when the silicon rod surface is unable to receive excessive silicon particles, as a result, atomization appears in the reactor and amorphous product is produced. Moreover, unreacted gas mixture enters the subsequent vent gas recovery material system with vent gas, resulting in increased loads in vent gas recovery material recov- ery process, increased costs, and waste of gas mixture. As suggested by production, the maximum material is proportional to silicon rod surface and larger reactor body requires more polysilicon rods and more feeds. See Fig. 14 for common feed curve, and see Fig. 15 (Yao et al. 2011) for the overall ﬂow ﬁeld vector diagram, simulated through computer, inside the reactor (b) Vector inside reactor The gas containing TCS and hydrogen in the reactor, with a ﬂow rate between 1 m/s and 2 m/s above silicon rod surface, will facilitate polysilicon deposition on silicon rod surface and will help hydrogen chloride, the byproduct material, being timely separated from the silicon rod. Laminar ﬂow shall be prevented to keep the gas ﬂow in turbulence state. 52 D. Yan Generally, the gas ﬂow is controlled by nozzles. Nozzles location on base plate of reactor, nozzle openings, and its control during operation are relied on to enable feed gas to form the optimal ﬂow ﬁeld in the reactor, thus, gas velocity shall also remain high at the nozzles, normally at 7090 m/s or Fig. 15 Diagram of overall ﬂow ﬁeld Fig. 14 CVD reactor feed curve 3 Siemens Process 53 so in order to produce an intensive turbulence, allowing an ideal concentra- tion distribution for mixed gas ﬂow in the entire reactor during gas ﬂow ascending, which is conducive to gas-phase concentration renewal over silicon rod surface. According to production practice, nozzle opening makes a signiﬁcant difference on gas ﬂow distribution. For instance, under the condition with same feeding pressure, constant temperature and amount, the bigger the opening is, the lower the ﬂow rate is, with low feed lifting height, low top gas concentration, and high crossbeam temperature, easily resulting in rod crack. Coral-like and popcorn-like polysilicon can be easily formed if local rod surface temperature is too high. The smaller nozzle aperture is, the higher the ﬂow rate is, as a result, material may be taken out from the reactor and sent to the vent gas system before depositing on silicon rod surface. Besides, ﬁlament fall, caused by ﬁlament vibration, may occur in the reactor with high-silicon ﬁlament. Therefore, it is very important to select proper nozzle aperture and nozzle structure and the opening type shall be determined on the basis of repeated trials in production. See Fig. 16 for the velocity vector on the reactor vertical section in the computer simulation model. See Fig. 17 for vertical sections temperatures of the furnace (Yan et al. 2014b). Fig. 16 Velocity vector on the reactor vertical section 54 D. Yan 5. Currentvoltage curve The resistance of silicon rod with high-purity polysilicon is high at normal temperature and would decline with the increasing of the temperature and reduc- tion of the rods diameter. For the production of polysilicon at 10501080 C, it is required to keep the silicon rod in the reactor at a constant temperature and to keep the heating power constant while the silicon rod volume and materials increasing. With the result of that the reduction, electrical systems power design and regulation are responsible for providing the condition of polysilicon produc- tion. In the case, the current and voltage shall be regulated and controlled as per the curve shown in Fig. 18 without disturbance. The charging of current such as its amount and duration plays a decisive role in reduction reaction. Therefore, reasonable current/voltage curves should be devel- oped based on production experience to maintain a stable polysilicon production. 6. Adding of dichlorosilane (DCS) Adding 12% of dichlorosilane into TCS has little impact on the reduction power consumption, which slightly declines. It can be deducted that a few dichlorosilane slightly inﬂuences the consumption because it is the by-product of gas reaction in the reactor, also involving in the reaction. Fig. 17 Furnace vertical sections temperatures 3 Siemens Process 55 Adding 35% of dichlorosilane into TCS signiﬁcantly reduces the power consumption, by about 36 kWh/kg-Si, and the adding proportion is in direct proportion to the reduction power consumption. When adding more than 7% of dishlorosilane into TCS, it will react intensely, which is hard to control causing atomization a large amount of amorphous silicon dust in the reactor and product with coralline or popcorn appearance. Default phase tends to occur in the reactor operation. The polysilicon rod fails to stop operating at normal cycle. As a result, the production of a single reactor drops with the material consumption going up. Although the power consumption descends greatly, it is not efﬁcient in the terms of balance of economic beneﬁt. Therefore, it is advised to add 35% of dichlorosilane into TCS in actual production. 7. Parameter calculation during polysilicon deposition (a) Feed gas ratio The ratio of hydrogen to TCS is in mole. The ratio of hydrogen to TCS can be deduced from the mole ﬂow, which is calculated from the mass ﬂow rate of TCS or hydrogen. The computational formula is: 1st step: Mole number n1 ¼ m1 M1 n1 of H2 in the gas mixture n1 = m1/M1 Wherein m1 refers to the mass of hydrogen in kg or Nm3 in the gas mixture, Fig. 18 U/I curve for the CVD-reactor 56 D. Yan and M1 stands for the molar mass of hydrogen, 2 kg/kmol or 22.4 Nm3/ kmol. 2nd step: mole number n2 of TCS in the gas mixture n2 = m2/M2 Wherein, m2 refers to the mass of TCS in kg in the gas mixture, and M2 stands for the molar mass of TCS, 135 kg/kmol. 3rd step: gas mixture ratio N N = n1/n2 (b) Deposition rate Deposition rate: the weight of polysilicon sediments in unit time in the reactor. The computational formula is: V = M/T Wherein V represents the deposition rate, M stands for the weight of polysilicon in a single reactor, and T represents the running time (h) of a single reactor, beginning from the charging of gas until the stoppage of such charging. (c) Primary reduction conversion rate Primary reduction conversion rate is the proportion of polysilicon generated as a result of reactions between the materials fed into the reactor. The magnitude of primary conversion rate greatly inﬂuences the material and energy consumption of the reactor. A higher primary conversion rate means a higher single reactors production as well as a lower consumption of both material and energy. The amount of TCS in the vent gas changes with the generation of STC, which can be used to reduce the load of the following vent gas recovery material system, reducing the general energy consumption of the production system. The computational formula is: W ¼ 100% m1 m2 Msi=MsiþMsihcl3 ð Þ Wherein W represents the primary reduction conversion rate, m1 the product weight in a single reactor, m2 the gross weight (kg) of the gas mixture charged into a single reactor, Msi the silicon molecular weight, and MTCS the TCS molecular weight. (d) Reduction power consumption (e) Reduction power consumption deﬁnes how much power is needed to produce one kilo polysilicon (unit: kWh/kg-Si). The computational formula is: P = E/M Wherein P refers to the power consumed by a single reactor (kWh/kg-Si), E the total power consumption of a single reactor (kWh), and M the weight of product polysilicon (kg-Si) in a single reactor. 8. Comprehensive utilization of heat energy, reducing power consumption 3 Siemens Process 57 Based on the computer simulation, feed distribution are optimized, and various inlet nozzles designed, allowing for even distributed thermal and ﬂow ﬁeld and material concentration, as well as lower power and material consumption, further facilitating the growth of dense polysilicon rod with a smooth surface, uniform diameter, and high quality. The mainstream polysilicon reactors include reactors with 24, 27, 36, 40, or 48 pairs of rods. A single reactor could produce 513 tons product with a reduction reaction power consumption of polysilicon dropping from 120 kWh/ kg-Si in 2009 to 550 kWh/kg-Si or below. Under given optimal operating conditions and less strict appearance requirements for the polysilicon, the power consumption would drop to 40 kWh/kg-Si. SIEMENS reactor normally uses such mediums as high-temperature water and conduction oil for cooling purpose, recovers such portion of heat, and uses it for puriﬁcation and activated carbon regeneration. It also recovers the reduction power consumption in the form of heat for use. Leading companies could make the waste heat recovery rate reach above 75% (Yan et al. 2014a). Overall power consumption of the whole polysilicon production process drops from 200 kWh/kg-Si in 2009 to about 85 kWh/kg-Si today, including 75% of power consumption by reduction reaction converted to heat for recycling (55  75% = 41.25 kWh/kg-Si). Therefore, it is calculated that the actual modiﬁed SIEMENS polysilicon production process achieves an overall power consumption of 43.75 kWh/kg-Si (8541.25 kWh/ kg-Si). With further optimization, modiﬁed Siemens process is expected to make the ﬁgure drop to below 70 kWh/kg-Si (Photovoltaic Industry Association of China 2017). Vent Gas Recovery Principle of Vent Gas Recovery Process The vent gas from the polysilicon reactor contains H2, HCl, SiHCl3, SiCl4, and SiH2Cl2. The gas mixture compressed and cooled to a certain degree produces condensed SiHCl3 and SiCl4, which then can be separated by distillation tower. SiHCl3 can be directly delivered into the reduction system to produce polysilicon. SiCl4 can be delivered to the hydrogenation process to produce SiHCl3, which can be separated through the distillation tower and then delivered into the reduction system to produce polysilicon. The noncondensable gas after the compression and cooling mainly consists of H2 and HCl. Under pressure and low temperature, the H2 and HCl can be separated from the gas mixture by special separation process (activated carbon adsorption method or cold SiCl4 and HCl solution method for recovering HCl). H2 without water and impurities could be reused in the reduction process. On the other hand, HCl can charge into the synthesis process for producing SiHCl3. The dry recovery is able to protect the vent gas from any water and to separate its constituents from each other. All constituents will be free of pollution and be reused by the system. 58 D. Yan 1. Cooling before compressing vent gas 0.50.6 MPag vent gas from the reduction process will go through the vent gas water cooler, gas-gas heat exchanger for vent gas, and vent gas chilled water cooler in order. Then the gas will enter the elution tower for further cooling under 20 C 25 C. After this step, chlorosilane is basically separated from the vent gas; 2. Compression and condensation of vent gas The condensed vent gas will be processed to gas with pressure of 1.11.5 Mpag (compressed air) by the compressor. The chlorosilane can be cooled and separated by the multistage heat exchanger where the gas goes through primary compressed gas heat exchanger, compressed air chilled water cooler, secondary compressed gas heat exchanger, compressed gas cooler, tertiary compressed gas heat exchanger, and compressed gas chiller in order. And then the gas will be cooled to 50 C and charged into the absorption tower. The gas processed by the tower, namely the gas after absorption, will go through the tertiary, secondary, and primary compressed gas heat exchangers in order and then the absorber. Some low-temperature chlorosilane condensate occurs during cooling of the compressed air. The condensate can be fed into the elution tower with the leacheate for recovering the cold capability of low-temperature condensate. 3. Absorption and desorption After the deep cooling, the hydrogen chloride, for the most part, still exists in the hydrogen, which can be absorbed in the absorption tower by chlorosilanes. Then the hydrogen chloride can be separated from the chlorosilane by the desorption tower. As absorption requires low temperature but desorption high temperature, heat exchanger multistage dual purpose heat exchanger is adopted for the rich and lean solution heat transfer to reduce the amount of 55 C refrigerants used so as to cut the cost. Low-pressure desorption technology is used in the desorption process, allo- wing low-temperature gas products to be discharged at the top of the tower. After heat exchange by higher temperature leacheate, the low-temperature hydrogen chloride is fed to the recovery process. 4. Hydrogen puriﬁcation Gas after absorption still contains a trace of chlorosilane and hydrogen chloride. Activated carbon temperature and pressure swing adsorption method will be adopted to process the gas and produce high purity hydrogen, which can meet the production requirements of polysilicon production. At the same time, the hydrogen can be recycled, reducing the demand for original hydrogen production and saving operation cost. The hydrogen after adsorption can be directly used in the reduction reaction. Gas generated during the activated carbon desorption and regeneration pro- cesses can be compressed by the compressor for the hydrogenation process. All the rest gas can return the absorption tower for following separation after deep cooling. 3 Siemens Process 59 The above processes can recover 98% of each constituent of the vent gas from the polysilicon production. The recycled and separated H2, HCl, chlorosilane, etc., can satisfy the demands of the polysilicon production by completely being recovered and reused in the system, which substantially reduces discharge and emission of waste gas, wastewater, and waste solid as well as material consumption. STC Hydrogenation STC Hydrogenation Overview The Siemens process can produce 1 t polysilicon and 1520 t SiCl4, which at room temperature is liquid and not good for storage and transportation. With consideration of its characteristics, the STC is converted into TCS by hydrogenation and returned to the system as a raw material. In this way, a clean production is achieved. STC hydrogenation can be mainly realized by low- and high- temperature hydrogenation, hydrochlorination, and plasma hydrogenation technologies (Wan et al. 2010). Hydrochlorination refers to adding the hydrogen chloride (25%) recovered by the system to the low-temperature hydrogenation process, in which the hydrogen chloride is mainly involved in the synthesis reaction with Si powder. The reaction mainly produces STC and a few amount of TCS. The hydrochlorination shares the equipment and operating conditions with the low-temperature hydroge- nation process. High-temperature hydrogenation process is named for its high temperature reac- tion requirements. It requires 12001300 C temperatures and 0.6 MPa pressure. Under such conditions, the STC directly reacts with hydrogen. SiCl4 conversion rate is 1517 mol%. The power consumption, however, is high. The reaction products contain high carbon content because of the graphite or carbon heating pieces. The low-temperature hydrogenation process, opposite to the high-temperature one, requires low reaction temperature. In the process, such reaction materials as STC, hydrogen, and Si powder react under 450600 C and 1.63.5 MPa. The process consumes low power. Primary SiCl4 conversion rate can be up to 2328 mol % back. Moreover, the equipment is suitable for enlargement. Plasma hydrogenation (Zhijun Huang et.al. 2011) belongs to a new technology. It is characterized by high conversion rate and simple equipment. The technology is still under development, for it is limited by its requirement for radio-frequency power supply, high power consumption, and small processing capacity of SiCl4 (Gusev et al. 2006). Based on the trend of the polysilicon industry, high-quality, large-scale, low-energy consumption, and low cost are widely pursued during the industrial development and in the market competition. Therefore, the low-temperature hydro- genation process has grown into a prevailing processing for possessing the above- mentioned features. In the low-temperature hydrogenation, main raw materials including SiCl4, H2, and Si powder react in the hydrogenation reactor under a certain temperature and pressure with cuprous chloride, copper chloride, copper alloy, and 60 D. Yan nickel alloy as catalysts. The reaction involving gas and solid materials generates SiHCl3. Low-temperature hydrogenation reactor mainly includes ﬁxed bed and ﬂuidized-bed. Low-Temperature Hydrogenation Principle of Low-Temperature Hydrogenation Raw materials SiCl4, H2, and silicon powder mixed by a certain ratio mainly take the following reaction in the hydrogenation reactor under a certain temperature and pressure: 3SiCl4 þ H2 þ Si ¼ 4SiHCl3 main ð Þ (13) SiCl4 þ 2H2 þ Si ¼ 2SiH2Cl2 side ð Þ (14) 2SiHCl3 ¼ SiCl4 þ SiH2Cl2 side ð Þ (15) SiCl4 þ SiH2Cl2 ¼ 2SiHCl3 side ð Þ (16) Low-Temperature Hydrogenation Process The process mainly refers Si powder preparation and feeding, STC-hydrogen mixed heating system, hydrogenation system, rapid cooling system, condensate separation system, and auxiliary systems, which consist of nitrogen, hydrogen, refrigeration, air pressure, and circulating water. See Fig. 19. Main Factors Affecting the Low-Temperature Hydrogenation According to the chemical equilibrium, the reaction is taking place toward the positive direction, conducive to the conversion of STC to the TCS. The main reaction factors include temperature, pressure, material ratio, and catalyst. Analysis is as follows: 1. Effect of hydrogen and STC ratio on the conversion rate The chemical equilibrium indicates that the material ratio, especially the ratio of hydrogen and STC, largely inﬂuences the conversion. With the ratio increasing, Fig. 19 Low-temperature hydrogenation process 3 Siemens Process 61 the conversion rate climbs up, showing the chemical equilibrium principle. With the ratio increasing, reduction of STC under a certain ﬂow rate directly affects the production capacity of the system. It shows that the best ratio of hydrogen and STC should be maintained, normally between 2.2 and 3.5. 2. Effect of reaction temperature on the conversion rate When the system pressure, differential pressure of reactant material level and material ratio are ﬁxed, with temperature rising, the conversion rate rises. It is because that the increasing temperature will fuel the reaction dynamic, resulting in increase of the conversion rates of materials per unit time. On the other hand, the low-temperature hydrogenation is to a slight endothermic reaction. Thus, the temperature increase is good for accelerating the hydrogenation reaction rate. The further increasing temperature, however, will propel TCS decomposition reac- tion, reducing its yield. As a result of that, the temperature for low-temperature hydrogenation should not be too high. Usually, the reaction temperature is optimally controlled at 500550 C. 3. Effect of reaction pressure on the conversion rate In terms of chemical equilibrium and the reaction equations, the product volumes of the main reaction (13) and side reaction (15) are the same as their reactants; the product volume of the side reaction (14) is smaller than its reactants. In this case, increased pressure will propel the side reaction (14), producing more dichlorosilane, and the side reaction (16), causing the TCS to increase slightly. In general, the reaction pressure has a little impact on the conversion rate. Increased pressure will improve the gas concentration per unit volume. When other reaction conditions are kept unchanged, the STC molar conversion will increase with the pressure increase in the reactor. But when the pressure increases to 2.5 MPa or higher, the conversion rate is increased steadily. In the event, the increased pressure rarely improves the conversion rate. But higher pressure will enlarge the feed rate and processing capacity of the system, increasing the systems economic beneﬁt. 4. Effect of the Si powder layer height on the conversion rate For the ﬁxed bed, the higher layer in the hydrogenation reactor, the higher conversion rate, namely the better reaction of STC and Si powder. The equipment design will limit the layer height. For the ﬂuidized bed reactor, the ﬂuidized Si powder brings large difﬁculty in detecting the layer level. For low-temperature hydrogenation, γ-ray level gauge is used to detect the level. The gauge, however, is not enough for detection accuracy and its radioactive source causes management difﬁculties. Therefore, the differ- ential pressure between the top and bottom of the Si powder layer is used to determine the layer height. And the gauge can be used as an auxiliary tool. When other parameters are kept unchanged, the conversion rate increases as the layer height increasing, for that the contact time of Si powder with STC and hydrogen rises leads to longer reaction time. But at the later stage, the increment of the conversion rate is limited because the Si powder moves to the top of the reactor and leaves with partial gas produced by the reactions in the reactor. Higher 62 D. Yan content of Si powder in such gas will cause difﬁculties for the following disposal process. In this case, the differential pressure of the Si powder layer is normally at 7090 kPa. 5. Effect of catalyst on the conversion rate The main catalysts used in the low-temperature hydrogenation system are such copper-based catalysts as copper chloride, cuprous chloride, and copper powder. The catalyst can increase the conversion rate by 13%. Hydrochlorination Hydrochlorination, in the industry, refers to the low-temperature hydrogenation of adding of hydrogen chloride from the dry vent gas recovery. It aims to dispose of the by-product hydrogen chloride of polysilicon reduction and the chlorine element equilibrium in the polysilicon production system. The relevant experiments and studies at early stages show that under the synthesis reaction conditions of increased pressure or atmospheric pressure and temperature 220 C or above, HCl reacts with Si powder. With temperature increasing, the TCS production rate is dropping greatly. Reaction temperature at 260290 C, cross- linked silicon hydrogen generation rate can reach 8590%; when the reaction temperature at 360 C, cross-linked silicon hydrogen generation rate down to 62%;when the reaction temperature at 450 C, cross-linked silicon hydrogen gener- ation rate dropped to 1020%; when the reaction temperature above 500 C, low silicon chemical hydrogen generation rate mainly produces SiCl4 and a small amount of SiHCl3, SiH2Cl2, SiH3Cl, SiH4, and polymer chlorosilane. The result comparison of the low-temperature hydrogenation and hydrochlorination shows that the two processes have the similar conversion rate, generally around 25%. In terms of production balance of the whole plant, the hydrochlorination has the following advantages: 1. No additional devices are required. The hydrochlorination could directly recovery the by-product hydrogen chloride in the reduction reaction. 2. Addition of hydrogen chloride makes up chlorine needed in the production, achieving chlorine equilibrium in polysilicon production system. 3. The reaction of silicon with hydrogen chloride is an exothermic reaction, low-temperature hydrogenation endothermic reaction. The hydrochlorination will help the heat balance and utilization in the low-temperature hydrogenation reactor reducing external heat demand. High-Temperature Hydrogenation Process principle is that when the electrical graphite heat exchanger produces heat with temperature reaching above 1250 C, the STC and hydrogen are heated and react. The TCS is produced. The equations are as follows SiCl4 þ H2 ¼ SiHCl3 þ HCl main ð Þ (17) 3 Siemens Process 63 The side reaction: SiHCl3 þ H2 ¼ SiH2Cl2 þ HCl side ð Þ (18) After leaving the reactor, the reactant gas is rapidly cooled by the quench cooler where TCS, STC, etc. is generated. After the processing of separating tower, STC returns to the high-temperature hydrogenation system, the TCS be delivered to the distillation and puriﬁcation system for separation and puriﬁcation. Comparison of Low- and High-Temperature Hydrogenation For the comparison of low- and high-temperature hydrogenation, see Table 5. Recycling of By-product Dichlorosilane (DCS) TCS Generation by Comproportionation With the catalyst of resin, dichlorosilane takes reaction with STC to produce TCS. Exchange resin with alkalescence and anions can be used. The functional groups are amino radical. The reaction equation is: SiH2Cl2 þ SiCl4 ! catalyst ð Þ2SiHCl3 Table 5 Comparison of low- and high-temperature hydrogenation S/N Item Low-temperature hydrogenation High-temperature hydrogenation 1 SiCl4 processing capacity (kg/h) per set 1250030000 5001500 2 Primary conversion rate (%) 2328 1722 3 Reaction temperature (C) 400600 12001300 4 Power consumption (kWh/kg-TCS) 0.40.7 2.03.5 5 Continuous running time (days) 150330 120 6 Running condition 1. It is hard to feed the solid Si powder under sealing condition 2. The equipment should be sophisticated for its large size and internal high pressure 1. Graphite electrodes and carbon ﬁber should be changed regularly 2. Carbon is involved in the reaction under high-temperature reaction, affecting the production quality 64 D. Yan Process: a certain ratio (1:46 mole ratio) of dichlorosilane and STC enter the stabilization tank after being blended by the mixer. The material is charged into the preheat exchanger when the shield pump pressurizes. After heated to 5060 C by the preheat exchanger, the material is fed to the reactor for the catalytic reaction. Then the products are fed to the tank area for separation and puriﬁcation after cooled by the cooler. The puriﬁed TCS returns the system for use. The conversion is typically 95%, and the TCS recovered can be recycled within the plant. Take Part in CVD Reaction and Low-Temperature Hydrogenation Both the reduction reaction and low-temperature hydrogenation continuously gen- erate a certain concentration of dichlorosilane. After distillation and puriﬁcation or adsorption puriﬁcation, the dichlorosilane can be fed into the reduction process together with hydrogen and TCS, which is favorable for improving the primary conversion rate of TCS to polysilicon by reduction and sedimentation. The dichlorosilane with a high content of impurities can be fed into the low-temperature hydrogenation reactor to raise the primary conversion rate of hydrogenation system, lower the systems Si powder consumption, and recycle the dichlorosilane. In this process conﬁguration, DCS will build up an equilibrium condition of approximately 69% DCS in the TCS feed. The recycle of DCS has a signiﬁcant effect at decreasing the manufacturing cost of silicon. Higher DCS concentrations in the TCS translate to faster deposition rates and correspondingly lower power consumption. The only disadvantage is slightly higher rates of homogeneous nucle- ation of silicon (powder formation). Powder formation can be mitigated in GTs CVD reactors when operated at proper conditions, and the GT plant design addresses particulate problems in downstream equipment. The advantages of greater deposi- tion rates and material efﬁciency far outweigh the single disadvantage of the particulate formation. In this process conﬁguration, DCS will build up an equilibrium condition of approximately 69% DCS in the TCS feed. The recycle of DCS has a signiﬁcant effect at decreasing the manufacturing cost of silicon. Higher DCS concentrations in the TCS translate to faster deposition rates and correspondingly lower power consumption. The only disadvantage is slightly higher rates of homogeneous nucle- ation of silicon (powder formation). Powder formation can be mitigated in GTs CVD reactors when operated at proper conditions and the GT plant design addresses particulate problems in downstream equipment. The advantages of greater deposi- tion rates and material efﬁciency far outweigh the single disadvantage of the particulate formation. Filament Preparation Today, there are two mainly technologies available for the production of ﬁlaments for CVD reactors: ﬂoat zone and wire saw. As for the zoning melting method, ﬁve pieces can be made from one campaign, seen in Fig. 20. As for the wire saw 3 Siemens Process 65 method, the raw polysilicon is melted in the monosilicon reactor and drawn into rods with a respective diameter of about 200 mm and length of 2.53.5 m, which are cut by multiwire sawing machine into 10  10 mm15  15 mm ﬁlaments at one time. Float Zone Process Pros: High purity ﬁlament, ﬁlaments are easily doped allowing for low voltage power starts, and easier for cleaning of etching. Cons: Requires large capital investments, personnel required to operate are 510 times the requirement for wire saw, high maintenance, requires specially grown polysilicon source rod, high energy consumption, and affecting polysilicon produc- tion capacity by reduction reactor. Wire Saw Process Wire saws use a wire coated with diamonds to cut silicon. It is an efﬁcient and cost- effective process used in a new application cutting CZ grown rods into ﬁlaments more than 3 m in length. Pros: Silicon loss from the knife is the lowest of the sawing processes. Low manpower and investment requirements when compared to ﬂoat zone process. Cons: Requires additional etching for semiconductor use. The Si loss is about 5% more than that by ﬂoat zone. Comprehensive Utilization of By-produced Energy Around 6070% of power would be consumed in the reduction reaction in the polysilicon production. Heat transfer oil or high-temperature water is used in the reaction to recover the by-produced energy. Such energy can be used in TCS puriﬁcation, vent gas dry recovery system, and other links in the polysilicon production. By experience, up to 75% of recovery energy can be used in the above links to reduce the overall power consumption in the polysilicon production. Fig. 20 Filaments making by ﬂoat zone method 66 D. Yan There are refrigeration systems with a temperature of 55 C, 35 C, and 7 C in the polysilicon production system. The idea of materials at varied temperatures exchanging heat is adopted in the project design to reduce cold energy consumption. This gradient temperature method makes the maximized utilization of cold energy in the systems possible. About 30% or above refrigeration power consumption is saved. Conclusion Polysilicon is the basic material of integrated circuits and photovoltaic solar cells. Today, the global polysilicon output by using Siemens process (trichlorosilane process) accounts for more than 90% in the world. Siemens process is still expected to be the mainstream of polysilicon production process in the future. This chapter describes the details of Siemens process. The processes include TCS synthesis, TCS distillation and puriﬁcation, TCS decomposition and hydrogen reduction in CVD reactor, vent gas recovery, STC hydrogenation, comprehensive utilization of other by-products, ﬁlament preparation, and comprehensive utilization of by-produced energy. In each section, the technology principles, reaction condi- tions, major equipment, operation conditions, materials and energy consumption, and so on are all described. Acknowledgments This chapter is grateful for the help of Zheng Ning, Shi Hewu, Zhang Chao, China ENFI Engineering Technology Co., Ltd., Secretary-General of China Photovoltaic Industry Association Wang Bohua, and my wife Dr. Li Rong. References A.V. Gusev et al., Preparation of trichlorosilane by plasma hydrogenation of silicon tetrachloride. Inorg. Mater. 42, 11231126 (2006) Bohua Wang, Review of 2016 China PV and expectation of 2017, Photovoltaic Industry Associ- ation of China, (2017) pp 16 D. Yan et al., Polycrystalline silicon energy consumption analysis and energy-saving practice. Electron Sci. Technol 02(01), 224230 (2014a) Dazhou Yan et al., Polysilicon production theory and practice of comprehensive utilization of byproduct of Silicon tetrachloride, Chinese Academy of engineering, chemical, metallurgical and materials engineering, in Proceedings of the 10th Conference ed. by Hongxiang Cao (Chemical industry press, Beijing, 2014b), p. 274 Dazhou Yan et al., The theory research and production practice for polysilicon high efﬁciency deposition, Chinese Academy of engineering, chemical, metallurgical and materials engineer- ing, in Proceedings of the 11th Conference ed. by Hongxiang Cao (Chemical Industry Press, Beijing, 2016), p. 392 Lixia Jiang et al., Application of energy saving technology in silicon puriﬁcation, Energy saving of nonferrous metallurgy, December, 6 (2010) Photovoltaic Industry Association of China, China PV industry development road ap, 68 (2017) 3 Siemens Process 67 Standardization administration of the peoples republic of China, GB/T 12963-2014 Electronic- grade polycrystalline silicon, National standard of peoples Republic of China (2014) Standardization administration of the peoples republic of China, GB/T 25074-2016 Solar-grade polycrystalline silicon, National standard of peoples Republic of China (2016) X. Yao et al., Polysilicon reactor based on Fluent numerical simulating and optimization. Energy Saving Nonfer Metallurg 4(8), 4856 (2011) Y. Wan et al., Trichlorosilane production of Silicon tetrachloride silicon technology. Energy Saving Nonfer Metallurg 12(6), 3032 (2010) Z. Huang et al., Hydrogen plasma reduction preparation of trichlorosilane Silicon tetrachloride consumption analysis. J. Portland 39(5), 769772 (2011) 68 D. Yan Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 4 Limin Jiang, Benjamin F. Fieselmann, Liguo Chen, and David Mixon Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 70 Commercial Production of Polysilicon ......................................................... 71 Fluidized-Bed Process for Producing Silicon from Silane .................................. 73 Background on Fluidized-Bed Engineering ................................................. 74 Industrial Applications of Fluidized-Bed Technology ...................................... 77 Applying Fluidized-Bed Technology to the Production of Polysilicon .................... 79 Commercial Production of Silane ........................................................... 80 Total Silane-Based Process for Converting MGS to Granular Polysilicon ................. 80 Siemens Process for Producing Polysilicon Rods from Trichlorosilane ................... 81 Comparison of the Fluidized-Bed Process and the Siemens Process for Making Polysilicon ...................................................................... 83 Process of Polycrystalline Silicon Fabrication .............................................. 85 Downside to the Use of Silane-Based Fluidized-Bed Technology ......................... 85 Alternate Technologies for the Production of Polysilicon .................................. 86 Alternate Approaches to Polysilicon Production ............................................ 87 Silane Reactions in a Fluidized-Bed Reactor ................................................... 87 Chemical Reaction of Silane in a Fluidized-Bed Reactor .................................. 87 Homogeneous, Heterogenous, and Scavenging Reactions of Silicon Particles ............ 87 Modeling of Silane Fluidized-Bed Reactors ................................................ 89 Operation of a Silane-Based Fluidized-Bed Reactor to Make Silicon ......................... 95 Feed Gas to the Fluidized-Bed Reactor ..................................................... 95 Preheating the Feed Gas ..................................................................... 95 L. Jiang GCL Solar Energy Trading Limited, Suzhou, Hong Kong Jiangsu Zhongneng Polysilicon Technology Development Co., Ltd., (GCL), Xuzhou, Jiangsu, P. R. China e-mail: jianglimin@gclsolarenergy.com B. F. Fieselmann (*)  L. Chen  D. Mixon GCL Technology Research Center, LLC, Princeton, NJ, USA e-mail: benﬁeselmann@gclsolarenergy.com; liguochen@gclsolarenergy.com; davidmixon@gclsolarenergy.com  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_5 69 Distributor and Jet Nozzles to Introduce the Feed Gas ..................................... 96 Different Designs for Heating Silane-Based Fluidized-Bed Reactors ...................... 97 Reactor Dimensions, Pressure, and Silicon Production Rate ............................... 99 Agglomeration of Silicon Particles .......................................................... 99 Control of the Silicon Particle Size Distribution in the Reactor ............................ 100 Factors to Consider When Optimizing Silicon Particle Size Distribution .................. 101 Silicon Powder Formation and Handling in a Fluidized-Bed Reactor ..................... 101 Removing the Silicon Deposited on the Reactor Wall ...................................... 102 Safety Issue with Silane and Hydrogen ..................................................... 103 Atmospheric Contamination of Silicon ..................................................... 103 Current Status of Commercial Research and Development of Silane Fluidized-Bed Reactors 103 Speciﬁcations for Polycrystalline Silicon for PV Applications ............................. 105 Improving FB Technology with Modeling .................................................. 106 Summary and Conclusions ...................................................................... 106 References ....................................................................................... 107 Abstract Silane-based ﬂuidized-bed technology is used to produce polysilicon for solar cells by decomposing silane onto silicon particles suspended in a heated stream of silane and hydrogen. Silane-based ﬂuidized-bed reactors potentially provide a lower cost method to produce polysilicon than the current Siemens reactors that dominate the silicon market. Production of silicon in a ﬂuidized bed requires 8090% less electrical energy than the currently favored Siemens process and converts a batch process into a more economical continuous process. The spherical granular silicon product from ﬂuidized-bed reactors is preferred to the polysilicon rods produced by the Siemens process for down- stream processing. Production of silicon by ﬂuidized beds has been carried on for over 20 years, but the simpler Siemens process has dominated polysilicon production because of the high purity of its polysilicon product and the avail- ability of low-cost electricity. The economics of the silane-based ﬂuidized-bed technology has improved signiﬁcantly due to advances in reactor design, process modeling, and operational experience. Fluidized-bed technology is the leading candidate to eventually provide less expensive polysilicon for solar cells. Keywords Silicon ﬂuidized-bed  Silicon production with silane  Silane-based ﬂuidized- bed  Fluidized bed and Siemens silicon  FBR polysilicon  Granular silicon Introduction The market price for puriﬁed polysilicon for solar applications has reached a critical point such that new technology is needed to further reduce the production costs for polysilicon. The price of polysilicon has decreased signiﬁcantly over the last decade with over building of Siemens production capacity (Bernreuter 2016). Further major 70 L. Jiang et al. cost reductions using the current Siemens process are unlikely. In order for the price of electricity from solar cells to achieve grid parity with other sources of electricity in more markets, the price of polysilicon must continue to drop. Silane (SiH4)-based ﬂuidized-bed (FB) technology is now the leading candidate to provide a signiﬁcant reduction in the price of polysilicon chieﬂy because FB reactors use 1020% as much electrical power as a Siemens reactor. Fluidized-bed technology using silane has been applied to silicon preparation since the early 1980s by Ethyl Corporation and MEMC (now SunEdison) (Roselund 2015). REC has produced FB silicon for many years (REC 2017). Despite the decades of commercial experience, the silane-based ﬂuidized-bed technology has failed to achieve its expected production efﬁciencies and anticipated cost savings. Currently silane-based ﬂuidized-bed technology accounts for less than 10% of world production of polysilicon (IHS 2014). The development of the silane-based ﬂuid- ized-bed process for silicon production still remains a major engineering challenge to reach its full potential. This chapter reviews the state of technology for polysilicon production from silane-based ﬂuidized-bed reactors. The presentation is industrially oriented with an emphasis on the practical issues that are encountered when operating a ﬂuidized-bed reactor with silane. Much of the research and development on silane-based ﬂuidized- bed reactors has been carried out by industry. The result is that there are few published articles on polysilicon production technology by those working with the technology. There are a large number of patents on the subject and a few third-party news reports. Two useful reviews on various aspects of silicon production using silane in a ﬂuidized bed are the articles by Filtvedt et al. (2010) and Jianlong et al. (2011). This review also provides a brief background on the current Siemens technology for producing polysilicon. This chapter outlines why the Siemens process is cur- rently the preferred method for polysilicon production and presents the engineering challenges that must be overcome before FB technology can reach the point where it can replace the Siemens process. Commercial Production of Polysilicon As the demand for polysilicon for photovoltaic applications increases, there has been a search for more economical methods for producing polysilicon. Many competing technologies have been examined over the last 50 years, but the Siemens process has emerged as the most cost-effective method for producing polysilicon, despite its many deﬁciencies. Of all the alternative methods for polysilicon production, the silane ﬂuidized-bed process has shown the greatest potential for replacing the Siemens process (Filtvedt et al. 2010). In order to understand how FB technology could eventually become the dominant method for polysilicon production, one needs to understand how polysilicon is currently produced. Although the Siemens process and ﬂuidized-bed technology appear to be different, they both produce high purity polysilicon and deal with many 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 71 of the same technical challenges. The chemistry of the two methods is shown in the chart below: ð1Þ ð2Þ Most of the commercial silicon puriﬁcation methods start with metallurgical grade silicon (MGS) (Mazumder 2000). High purity silicon dioxide ore is reduced with carbon in an electric arc furnace at 1900 C as follows: SiO2 þ C ! Si þ CO2 (3) Liquid silicon (melting point 1414 C) is drained out of the furnace and collected. This arc furnace process produces metallurgical grade silicon that is 98.599.5% pure. For photovoltaic and semiconductor applications, further puriﬁcation of the silicon is needed to reduce impurity levels to the part per million (ppm) or to the part per billion (ppb) by mass level. (These levels of impurity are referred to as 6 N (99.9999%) or 9 N (99.9999999%), respectively.) Roughly photovoltaic grade silicon must be at or purer than the 6 N level. Semiconductor grade silicon is typically in the 9 N or better range of purity. For photovoltaic applications, the highest purity of polysilicon possible is favored because it yields more efﬁcient solar cells. Industrially, one is continually faced with the tradeoff between pro- ducing higher efﬁcient solar cells with the increased cost of higher purity polysilicon. The most common method for puriﬁcation of silicon requires conversion of the MGS to trichlorosilane (HSiCl3). Puriﬁcation occurs by two sequential steps. Under reaction conditions to produce HSiCl3 from silicon most other elements present as impurities are removed because others elements do not form volatile compounds under the conditions where trichlorosilane is formed. Secondly, the HSiCl3 that is produced can be further puriﬁed by distillation to remove residual impurities with different vapor pressures. The highly puriﬁed trichlorosilane can be directly converted back to poly- silicon by the Siemens process, or it can be reacted to form silane. The silane can be thermally decomposed to polysilicon by a FB process. In both cases, metal- lurgical grade silicon forms a volatile compound or compounds which are puriﬁed 72 L. Jiang et al. and then decomposed back to silicon for further processing. This conversion through multiple steps makes possible the production of ultrapure silicon neces- sary for photovoltaic and semiconductor applications. In the puriﬁcation process to form polysilicon the critical steps are the conversion of either trichlorosilane or silane back to silicon. In the following sections the operation of a ﬂuidized-bed process with silane to form polysilicon will be presented. The use of trichlorosilane in the Siemens process will be presented later for contrast. Fluidized-Bed Process for Producing Silicon from Silane Fluidized-bed technology works well with silane as the feed gas to make silicon. The FB reaction involves the deposition of silicon from silane onto small, heated particles of silicon that are suspended in a ﬂow of feed gas as shown in Fig. 1. Fig. 1 Simpliﬁed basic ﬂuidized-bed reactor with silicon particles suspended in a stream of silane and hydrogen. The reactor is heated to 650850 C so that the silane decomposes and deposits silicon onto the suspended particles. Over time larger particles of silicon are removed as product and smaller silicon particles are added to maintain the particle size distribution of the suspended silicon particles. Hydrogen, unreacted silane, and silicon dust are removed from the top of the reactor 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 73 When describing the environment in a ﬂuidized-bed reactor, it has become common to refer to the bubble phase and the emulsion phase. The bubble phase is the gas contained within a bubble. For a silane-based reactor the emulsion phase refers to the dense mixture of silicon particles and the surrounding gas. The reactor presented above is a simple type of ﬂuidized bed presented as an introduction. Later in this review, more modern and sophisticated reactors will be discussed. In the simple model, the reactor is heated through the walls. The feed gas enters the reactor from the bottom with sufﬁcient ﬂow gas to ﬂuidize the silicon particles. During the course of the ﬂuidized-bed operation, small seed particles of silicon are periodically added and larger particles are removed permitting continuous production of silicon. The silane decomposes on the silicon particles and deposits silicon. Background on Fluidized-Bed Engineering It is worthwhile to cover some of the basics of ﬂuidized-bed engineering since they are vital to the understanding of the process that produces silicon in a ﬂuidized bed. For a complete discussion of ﬂuidized-bed engineering, please refer to the books by Kunii and Levenspiel (1991) and by Yang (2003). Minimum Fluidization Gas Velocity The minimum ﬂuidization velocity is the gas superﬁcial ﬂuid velocity at the onset of ﬂuidization during which the drag force on the particles by the upward moving ﬂuid is balanced by the weight of the particles. The minimum ﬂuidization velocity can normally be calculated by the Ergun equation as below 1:75 e3 mf ϕs Re2 mf þ 150 1  emf   e3 mf ϕ2 s Remf ¼ d3 pρg ρs  ρg   g μ2 (4) and Remf ¼ ρgumf dp μ , (5) where emf is void fraction at minimum ﬂuidizations, φs is the sphericity of the particles, ρs is the particle density, ρg is the gas density, dp is the diameter of the particle, μ is the viscosity of the gas and g is the acceleration of gravity. Minimum Bubbling Gas Velocity The minimum bubbling velocity is the superﬁcial ﬂuid velocity at which bubbles start to form. This bubbling behavior normally occurs after the onset of the ﬂuidi- zation, so the minimum bubbling velocity should be at least equal to or larger than the minimum ﬂuidization velocity. 74 L. Jiang et al. Geldart Classification of Particles By studying the ﬂuidization behavior of different solids, Geldart (1986), classiﬁed them into four distinguishable groups with clearly recognizable ﬂuidization behav- ior. The classiﬁcation is described as follows:  Geldart C: The particles are small (100 microns) and cohesive. They are very difﬁcult to ﬂuidize because the interparticle forces are large and the particles tend to agglomerate together.  Geldart A: The particles ﬂuidize easily. They exhibit smooth ﬂuidization behavior after minimum ﬂuidization velocity. They have controlled bubbling behavior with recognizable minimum bubbling velocity.  Geldart B: The particles ﬂuidize well with bubbling action and gas bubbles appear right after minimum ﬂuidization velocity.  Geldart B and D: The particles are very hard to ﬂuidize, since they normally are large, dense solids. Stable spouted bed can be formed for this type of solids. Geldarts classiﬁcation has since become the standard and can be readily displayed by Fig. 2: Bed Pressure Drop Once the bed reaches the minimum ﬂuidization state, the pressure drop across the bed is equal to the weight of the bed per unit area. Therefore, ΔP ¼ Wg A , (6) Fig. 2 Geldart classiﬁcation of particles for ﬂuidization based on particle size and density. Geldart B and D group are those encountered in a silane-based ﬂuidized-bed reactor. The approximate location of the silicon particles is noted in the chart (Geldart 1986) 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 75 where ΔP is the pressure drop across the bed, Wg is the total weight of the bed, A is the cross-sectional area of the bed. We can conclude that once the bed is in the ﬂuidization state, varying the gas ﬂow rate will not change the total pressure drop across the bed as long as the total weight of the particles is ﬁxed. The pressure drop across the bed can also be formulated as follows: ΔP H ¼ 1  e ð Þ ρs  ρg   g, (7) where H is the bed height, and e is the void fraction of the bed. For gas ﬂuidized bed, since ρs ρg, so ΔP H ¼ 1  e ð Þρsg: (8) The ﬂuidized bed density ρb = (1  e)ρs can be estimated from the bed pressure drop ρb ¼ ΔP gH : (9) Slugging Beds In ﬂuidized beds, with increasing gas velocity the bubbles can increase in size to the bed diameter and form slugging beds. The gas slugs rise at regular intervals and cause large pressure ﬂuctuations inside the beds. The pressure ﬂuctuation inside the bed can result in sever vibration of the reactor and its associated piping, hence causing damage. Slugging should be avoided in those cases if possible. The follow- ing correlation (Baeyens and Geldart 1974) can be used to calculate the minimum slugging velocity Ums Ums ¼ Umf þ 0:07 ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ gD p , (10) where D is the reactor diameter. Heat Transfer in Fluidized Beds One of the major advantages of using ﬂuidized-bed reactors is its capacity for heat transfer features. Due to the rapid mixing of the ﬂuidized particles, the entire bed is nearly isothermal. Since hot spots can be minimized, the process operations can be well controlled. Heat transfer between particles and gas in a ﬂuidized bed is very fast and they can be regarded as being at the same temperature in most cases. In rare transient cases, the following correlation (Yang 2003) can be used to calculate the heat transfer coefﬁcient: For 0.1  Rep  50 76 L. Jiang et al. Nup ¼ hpdp kg ¼ 0:0282Re1:4 p Pr0:33 g (11) For 50  Rep  104 Nup ¼ hpdp kg ¼ 0:0282Re1:4 p Pr0:33 g , (12) where hp is the heat transfer coefﬁcient between the particles and the gas, dp is the particle diameter, kg is the gas thermal conductivity, and Prg is the Prandtl number of the gas. Rep is the particle Reynolds number Rep ¼ ρgdpu0 μg : (13) There are many correlations in the literature for calculating the wall-to-bed heat transfer coefﬁcient hw. Levas formula (Yang 2003) has been used extensively for large particle bubbling ﬂuidized beds Nuw ¼ hwdp kg ¼ 0:525Re0:75 p : (14) Heat transfer between the ﬂuidized bed and a gas feeding distributor plate has been studied by Zhang and Quyang (1985): Nud ¼ hddp kg ¼ 0:09 ρsCps ρgCpg !0:4 dpρgu0 μg !0:4 : (15) With the condition, 0:3  dpρgu0 μg  40, (16) where μg is the gas viscosity, u0 is the superﬁcial gas velocity, Cps is the speciﬁc heat of the solid, Cpg is the speciﬁc heat of the gas. Industrial Applications of Fluidized-Bed Technology There are a wide range of commercial processes that use ﬂuidized-bed technology in multiphase reactions where solids are reacted with gases. The basic concept of ﬂuidized-bed technology is that solids are suspended in a high velocity stream of gas. A major advantage of ﬂuidized-bed technology is the good heat and mass 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 77 transfer between materials in the solid phase and gas phase. Good heat transfer is especially useful with very exothermic reactions where over heating can result in hot spots in a ﬁxed bed reactor. A second major advantage with ﬂuidized-bed reactors is that the processes can be made continuous by adding and removing solid and gaseous reactants from the reactor. There are several negative aspects to the use of FB technology. Fluidized-bed reactors can be challenging to control. Parameters such as feed gas make up, temperature, ﬂow rate, and particle size have to be held within a small range of settings. The bed level must be carefully monitored. The possibilities of collapsing the bed or elutriating bed particles out of the top of the reactor continually exist. Temperature, pressure, concentration, and many other parameters vary throughout the reactor at any given moment. Understanding what is going on in a FB reactor is difﬁcult. Reaction process modeling may be required to interpret the behavior in a reactor and to correctly respond to changing reactor conditions. Scalability is difﬁcult to achieve with a ﬂuidized bed (Howard 1989). It is not easy to predict the conditions in the reactor as the diameter and height of the unit increase. As the diameter of the reactor increases the bed volume increases faster than the wall heating surface area. Fluidized beds are used extensively in the petrochemical and energy industries. Catalytic cracking of high molecular weight petroleum is accomplished by passing gaseous hydrocarbons over a suspended bed of catalyst. Catalytic reforming is another process where ﬂuidized-bed technology is used to upgrade petroleum. In many ﬂuidized-bed processes the contents of the reactor bed either do not change, as when catalyst particles make up the bed, or decrease over time, as when the suspended particles are consumed in a reaction. In contrast, in the silane-based FB process the particles grow in diameter as silicon is deposited. The industrial process that is superﬁcially similar to the ﬂuidized-bed deposition of silane on silicon particles is the growth of polymer beads. The growth of silicon particles and the growth of polymer beads in a FB reactor are similar in that the suspended particles increase in size as the process is operated. Polymer beads are introduced into the ﬂuidized-bed reactor. The product beads are suspended and grow as monomer vapor is added. The product beads are periodically screened and the larger beads are removed and the small beads are returned to the reactor. Fluidized-bed technology is used with ethylene, propylene, styrene, and other monomer feedstock to generate ﬂowable beads that can later be processed into plastics. Fluidized beds are widely used in the silicon industry in many processes. Many reactions involving silicon tend to be very exothermic and make use of the excellent heat transfer characteristics of ﬂuidized-bed reactors. The preparation of silicones depends on the highly efﬁcient production of the monomer dimethyldichlorosilane (Si(CH3)2Cl2) by the reaction of methyl chloride with silicon in a ﬂuidized-bed reactor. The reaction is referred as the Direct Process. Particles of silicon and a copper catalyst are suspended in a stream of methyl chloride to carry out the following high yield reaction: 78 L. Jiang et al. 2 CH3Cl þ Si ! Si CH3 ð Þ2Cl2: (17) Some of the trichlorosilane used in the silicon industry is prepared in ﬂuidized beds using the following highly exothermic direct chlorination process: Si þ 3 HCl ! HSiCl3 þ H2: (18) It is not surprising that the ﬂuidized-bed hydrochlorination process reaction shown below was developed to convert the Siemens byproduct silicon tetrachloride back to trichlorosilane, for recycle back to the Siemens process and for the produc- tion of silane. Si þ 2 H2 þ 3 SiCl4 ! 4 HSiCl3 (19) It is clear that the silicon industry makes use of ﬂuidized-bed technology to carry out many of the key reactions. Most of the silicon-based reactions that use a ﬂuidized-bed technology have been optimized and are routinely run to prepare numerous chlorosilane and organosilane compounds. Despite decades of experience optimizing and working successfully with silicon-based ﬂuidized beds to make chlorosilanes and organosilicones, it has remained a challenge to achieve the same level of success with the deposition reaction to produce silicon. The potential beneﬁts of ﬂuidized beds such as high selectivity, good yield, and increased throughput have been achieved with many silicon and organosilicon reactions. Difﬁculties remain in optimizing the process to deposit silane on ﬂuidizedsilicon particles. The next section presents the speciﬁcs of how FB technology is applied to the case of silane deposition on suspended silicon particles. Applying Fluidized-Bed Technology to the Production of Polysilicon Polysilicon is produced in a ﬂuidized bed by suspending a bed of granular silicon particles in a ﬂow of silane bearing gas that is usually diluted with hydrogen. The hot reactor walls heat the silicon particles which then transfer heat to the silane and hydrogen feed gases. The silane is decomposed in the FB reactor and deposits silicon on the granular silicon particles. As indicated in Fig. 1, bubbles of feed gas can form. The silane in the bubbles may have little opportunity to react with the silicon particles. The rapidly moving and often violent actions of the silicon particles in the bed lead to a wide range of differing conditions in the reactor over time. The overall chemical reaction behind the silane-based FB reactor is the following thermal decomposition: n SiH4 Deposited Si ! Si þ Six þ 2n H2: Si Dust (20) 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 79 This reaction can go to completion and is not limited by equilibrium (Walch and Dateo 2001). The silane decomposition reaction yields two main silicon products. The desired process is the deposition of silicon onto the ﬂuidized particles in the emulsion phase to increase the size of the polysilicon granules. The silane also decomposes to form ﬁne silicon dust by the homogeneous thermal decomposition in the bubble phase. Commercial Production of Silane The most economical method for silane production for use in a FB uses dispropor- tionation of trichlorosilane (Breneman 1987, 2016). In this well-established route trichlorosilane is converted to silane by using staged amine catalyzed reactions and multiple distillations. In silane plants anion exchange styrene resins with amine functional groups are used as the disproportionation catalyst, and the chlorosilanes in the liquid phase are passed through several heated resin beds, equilibrated, and distilled. The net reaction to produce silane is the following: 4 HSiCl3 ! SiH4 þ 3 SiCl4: (21) In the disproportionation process, there is no net stoichiometric consumption of silicon or any element. There is only a rearrangement of hydrogen and chloride bonded to silicon. Total Silane-Based Process for Converting MGS to Granular Polysilicon In order to make the silane-based ﬂuidized-bed process possible, three chemical units described below are required. The ﬁrst two reactions are well understood equilibrium processes that have been optimized for high performance. The third reaction used to deposit silane on silicon in a FB reactor is just the ﬁnal step in the overall process to produce a highly puriﬁed granular silicon product. 1. Metallurgical grade silicon (MGS) is converted to trichlorosilane by hydrochlorination with silicon tetrachloride and hydrogen Si þ 3 SiCl4 þ 2 H2 ! 4 HSiCl4: (22) 2. Trichlorosilane is disproportionated to silane and silicon tetrachloride 4 HSiCl3 ! SiH4 þ 3 SiCl4: (23) 80 L. Jiang et al. 3. Silane is deposited in a ﬂuidized bed onto granular silicon seed particles and releases hydrogen SiH4 ! Si þ 2 H2: When the three chemical reactions are added, the net result is the following: Si MGS, 98:5-99:5% pure ð Þ ! Si polysilicon, 6N to 9N purity ð Þ: (24) There is theoretically no net consumption of hydrogen and chloride in the three- step process. In reality small amounts of hydrogen (as H2) and chlorine (as HSiCl3 or SiCl4) must be added to replace process losses due to required puriﬁcation steps. To understand how silane-based ﬂuidized-bed technology can compete with the Siemens process, it is important to understand how the Siemens process operates. Both technologies produce polysilicon and have many characteristics in common. Siemens Process for Producing Polysilicon Rods from Trichlorosilane The Siemens process depends on converting metallurgical grade silicon to tri- chlorosilane (HSiCl3). After one has obtained highly puriﬁed trichlorosilane by distillation, the ﬁnal puriﬁcation step is the conversion to polysilicon by thermal decomposition. The Siemens Process Siemens Process deposits trichlorosilane onto a seed rod of polysilicon via the following reaction (H. Gutschel 1962): HSiCl3 ! Si þ HCl þ SiCl4 þ H2: (25) Equation 25 is not a balanced chemical equation but instead represents an equilibrium. This Siemens reaction is a chemical equilibrium process that does not go to completion but produces a number of compounds. The reaction produces hydrogen, silicon tetrachloride, and hydrogen chloride. Depending on reaction conditions the Siemens process typically deposits less than 25% of the tri- chlorosilane feed in a given pass through the reactor (Filtvedt et al. 2012). Extensive recycling of feed gases is required during the operation of the Siemens process. The Siemens reactor is schematically shown in Fig. 3. The Siemens process involves feeding a gas mixture of hydrogen and trichlorosilane into a bell jar-shaped chamber containing U-shaped silicon rods and depositing silicon on the hot silicon surfaces. An electric current is passed through the rods to bring the silicon rods to a temperature near 1150 C. The trichlorosilane is heated to the reaction temperature as it approaches the hot silicon rods. The trichlorosilane reacts on the hot 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 81 silicon surface to deposit silicon and to release silicon tetrachloride, hydrogen, and unreacted trichlorosilane. The diameter of the rods increases as silicon is deposited. The Siemens process has several operational difﬁculties that were of little concern when the price of polysilicon was high and the price of electricity to power the Siemens reactors was low. As a cold wall reactor process, much of the heat generated to deposit silicon is removed by cooling of the reactor walls resulting in low energy efﬁciency. Furthermore, the Siemens process is a batch process that must be shut down in each production cycle when the rods have grown sufﬁciently large. The thick product rods are replaced with new seed rods and the deposition process is repeated. The success of the Siemens reactors has been largely credited to the decoupling of the heating of the silicon rods from the heating of the feed gas (Filtvedt et al. 2010). The feed gas is only heated when the trichlorosilane and hydrogen are near the hot silicon rods where the deposition reaction occurs. The walls of the Siemens reactor are vigorously cooled to prevent silicon deposition on the walls and to hold down the temperature of the feed gas throughout the bell jar except near the heated silicon rods. The major advantage of the Siemens process is that it is a mature technology that can produce high purity silicon (often greater than 9 N). The Siemens process is relatively easy to operate and has become very reliable. Siemens reactors are run worldwide by many companies. The Siemens process is made commercially viable by a separate ﬂuidized-bed hydrochlorination process shown in the summary below. In the hydrochlorination process metallurgical grade silicon is reacted with the Siemens by-product silicon tetrachloride (SiCl4) and hydrogen to produce tri- chlorosilane feed for the Siemens reactor. Almost all commercial Siemens reactors use trichlorosilane as the feed material. The process produces very little silicon powder, as the reaction intermediate hydro- gen chloride reacts with silicon powder to produce more trichlorosilane according to the following reaction: Si þ 3 HCl ! HSiCl3 þ H2: (26) Fig. 3 Schematic diagram of a Siemens reactor showing how silicon is deposited via thermal deposition of trichlorosilane on heated, shaped silicon rods. The reaction is run in a bell jar where the reactor walls are water cooled to prevent silicon deposition 82 L. Jiang et al. In summary, the chemistry involved in the Siemens process is based on the following two reactions: 1. Metallurgical grade silicon, silicon tetrachloride, and hydrogen are converted to trichlorosilane in a heated hydrochlorination equilibrium reaction Si þ 3 SiCl4 þ 2 H2 ! 4 HSiCl3: (27) 2. In a Siemens reactor trichlorosilane undergoes an equilibration reaction to deposit silicon and produce silicon tetrachloride, hydrogen chloride, and hydrogen HSiCl3 ! Si þ HCl þ SiCl4 þ HSiCl3 þ H2: (28) Over the last 50 years the Siemens process has been optimized by using increas- ingly larger reactors and achieving high conversion rates (Fu et al. 2015). The Siemen reactors are readily scalable for commercial operation. Production levels are increased by adding more reactors. The economics of the Siemens process depends on the recycling of all forms of the off-gas products or their use in other processes within a chemical complex. One needs to reduce losses of silicon or chloride from the process. Even though Siemens technology has been brought to a high level of development, the major deﬁciency remains that the process is a batch process that is a high consumer of electric power. The Siemens process remains the dominant process for the production of polysilicon due to the high purity of the product silicon and the high reliability of reactor operations. As the demand for polysilicon continues to increase, the question remains whether the rising cost of electricity and the added costs for running a batch process will make the FB route to make polysilicon production more cost-effective. Comparison of the Fluidized-Bed Process and the Siemens Process for Making Polysilicon There are both advantages and disadvantages to the operation of each type of polysilicon production process. With increasing demand for polysilicon and with the high electrical power consumption of the Siemens process, there are renewed incentives to investigate new production techniques. Fluidized-bed technology has the potential to bring signiﬁcant cost reduction speciﬁcally to polysilicon production as it has done in many other industrial processes. The following table compares various aspects of the silane-based FB production of polysilicon with the Siemens process: Based on Table 1, the comparison between the Siemens and FB processes is quite complex. Each technology has advantages and disadvantages. The following dis- cussion expands on the information presented in the chart. 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 83 There are several key issues encountered when comparing the two silicon pro- duction methods. As a batch process, there is extensive time and effort required to remove the silicon product rods from a Siemens reactor and set up the reactor for each new cycle. Because silicon is harvested from a Siemens reactor as a thick rod that is broken into large chunks, there is little surface contamination from the environment. In contrast the production and handling of granular silicon from a ﬂuidized-bed reactor is prone to contamination. Both during production and during handling of the ﬁnal granular polysilicon product the vastly larger surface area of the silicon granules can lead to contamination from other elements that come into contact with the product. In general, silicon from Siemens reactors tends to have higher purity than silicon from ﬂuidized-bed reactors, even when considering the crushing process to reduce the size of Siemens rods (Bernreuter 2014). Solar cell efﬁciency is dependent on the purity of the silicon going into the solar cell. Even though FB silicon does not normally have the purity found in silicon produced by the Siemens process, it has been argued that FB reactors offer a viable, low-cost source of polysilicon to manufacture solar cells (Steemann et al. 2012). One of the major differences between FB reactors and the Siemens process is the feed gases. These differences in chemical and reaction properties result in many of the differences in the two types of processes. The ﬂuidized-bed reactor uses silane, which is a chloride-free silicon hydride gas. Silane can decompose completely under the reaction conditions in a noncorrosive environment. With a silane feed another advantage is that the reaction can be run at a lower temperature because of silanes lower decomposition temperature (see section Chemical Reaction of Silane in a Fluidized-Bed Reactor). The main downside consider- ation with silane as a feed gas is that a disproportionation plant is required to convert trichlorosilane to silane. Table 1 Comparison of several factors between Siemens reactors and fluidized-bed reactors in the production of polysilicon Fluidized-bed process (Based on SiH4 Feed) Siemens process (Based on HSiCl3 Feed) Potential for reduced Si cost Limited future cost reduction likely Continuous operation Batch process Flowable, spherical Si product Crushing step required to convert rods to chunk Si Noncorrosive feed gas Corrosive feed gas Reaction goes to completion Limited equilibrium reaction producing HCl and SiCl4 Produces higher amounts of powder Minimal Si powder produced 8090% less energy required High electric power consumption Minimal cooling required (hot wall) Large cooling load to cool reactor walls (cold wall) Developing technology Mature optimized technology Reactor operates at 650850 C High temperature reactor operates near 1150 C Chloride-free feed product Residual chloride in product from HSiCl3 feed Violent ﬂuidized-bed environment Stable, ﬁxed reactor environment 84 L. Jiang et al. A major industrial factor is that the Siemens process produces only rods of polysilicon that have to be crushed into smaller particles for downstream crystalli- zation processing. Process of Polycrystalline Silicon Fabrication Spherical silicon particles are the favored form for handling polysilicon for down- stream continuous crystallization processing (Filtvedt et al. 2010). Round particles of silicon have greater ﬂowability for feeding polysilicon. The spherical, granular product silicon from a ﬂuidized-bed reactor is uniquely suited as feed for continuous Czochralski (Cz) crystal pullers in the manufacture of monocrystalline silicon. The speciﬁc need for ﬂowability in polysilicon is yet another cost-reducing factor encouraging the development of ﬂuidized-bed technology. Research continues on ﬂuidized-bed reactors to improve their beneﬁts. As men- tioned ﬂuidized-bed reactors can be run in a continuous mode with far less electrical power demands. On the down side, ﬂuidized-bed silicon reactors must be periodi- cally cleaned and repaired. As mentioned above, there are many industrial processes that successfully utilize ﬂuidized beds in various chemical processes. Typically, such processes are devel- oped and optimized over a number of years to reach a stage where the process is stable in commercial operation. The use of ﬂuidized-bed technology for the depo- sition of silane to silicon has been slow to follow this pattern. Even though the theoretical advantages of ﬂuidized bed for silane production are well recognized, the actual development of the technology in commercial-sized plants has proven to be challenging. The difﬁculties result from the nature of the reaction that is being carried out and the need to resolve conﬂicting factors. Many of these issues will be expanded later in this chapter. Downside to the Use of Silane-Based Fluidized-Bed Technology Table 1 points out the main advantages and disadvantages of ﬂuidized-bed technol- ogy to produce polysilicon, but it does not prioritize them. One major disadvantage of FB reactors is that they may produce less pure polysilicon than the Siemens rods at this time, but the potential exists for improvement in the purity of FB polysilicon product. Another disadvantage is that FB process is more complicated to operate. Problems typically encountered with all FB reactors such as deﬂuidization and plugging may occur. The possibility of slugging, wall deposition, and agglomeration all complicate the operation of a FB reactor. The production of silane alone requires the operation of a disproportionation plant before the actual silane deposition unit can be run. The production of silicon dust as a by-product of using silane in a FB reactor is a disadvantage because of product loss and because of the need to remove the silicon dust. The numerous disadvantages of the FB process have allowed the Siemens process to dominate as the preferred method for polysilicon production. 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 85 Progress has been made in overcoming or reducing many of the current disadvan- tages encountered with the FB silane process. A more systematic review of the challenges of the silane-based FB process will be presented later. Alternate Technologies for the Production of Polysilicon Although this chapter focuses on ﬂuidized silane-bed technology to produce poly- silicon, it is useful to brieﬂy mention other related methods currently being studied to produce polysilicon. By recognizing other methods for silicon puriﬁcation, it is possible to put some context into why the silane-based ﬂuidized-bed method is currently considered as the most likely to succeed and to replace the Siemens process. Use of Trichlorosilane in Fluidized-Bed Production of Polysilicon The use of silane in a ﬂuidized bed has been mentioned above as the most favored alternative for ﬂuidized-bed production of silicon. Industry has explored many other feed compounds for deposition to produce polysilicon. In 1961 DuPont patented the use of trichlorosilane in a ﬂuidized-bed reactor to purify silicon (Bertrand and Olsen 1961). Wacker has operated a plant and has developed ﬂuidized-bed technology using trichlorosilane directly as the feed material (Wacker 2016). Wacker claims to have eliminated silicon dust formation and to have produced high purity polysilicon (Weidhaus et al. 2005). The trichlorosilane-based FB process produces spherical polysilicon but the plants have so far proven not to be economical. The major difﬁculty is that the deposition reaction has to be run at the higher temperature range of 8501000 C, which is far above that of a silane-based FB reactor. The reactor has to withstand a corrosive chloride environment at high temperatures. One encounters difﬁculties with materials of construction that can withstand the highly corrosive environment and can achieve high levels of purity in the product polysilicon. There is also the problem of chloride incorporation into the silicon. As with the Siemens process, deposition with trichlorosilane runs as an equilib- rium reaction that does not go to completion so that extensive recycling is required. Silane remains the favored silicon compound for use in a FB reactor for polysilicon production. Use of Silane in Siemens Reactors to Make Polysilicon One novel approach to silicon production uses a Siemens type reactor, with silane replacing trichlorosilaneas the feed gas (Revankar and Lohoti 2014). With silane feed the Siemens reactors can be run at a lower temperature. The major problem using a Siemens reactor with silane appears to be excessive silicon powder forma- tion. To reduce the powder problem the Siemens reactors have to be run with lower silane conversions. A high proportion of the silane must be recovered from the off gas and recycled. 86 L. Jiang et al. Alternate Approaches to Polysilicon Production There are many other approaches to polysilicon production that have been explored in the patent literature. One interesting approach deals with the problem of creating silicon dust. The technique is to convert all of the silane directly to silicon powder in a free space reactor. The silicon powder is compressed into briquets and melted to form an ingot (Iya 1987). Silane Reactions in a Fluidized-Bed Reactor The reaction of silane in a FB reactor consists of a complex series of chemical steps. The thermal decomposition of silane has been extensively studied (Walch and Dateo 2001). The low pressure (often far below one atmo- sphere) epitaxial deposition of silicon from silane plays a major part in the semiconductor industry and is well understood. The higher-pressure depo- sition of silicon at above one atmosphere encountered in the preparation of polysilicon from silane has had much more limited study. A high-pressure (well above one atmosphere) FB silane-based ﬂuidized-bed silicon plant has been constructed and operated in a joint venture between SunEdison and Samsung (Roselund 2015). After a startup and initial operation, this plant has not restarted due to business conditions. GCL has also developed high pressure FB technology using silane feedstock. Chemical Reaction of Silane in a Fluidized-Bed Reactor The decomposition of silane is known to occur between 350 C and 480 C depending on conditions such as hydrogen pressure and the availability of surfaces that can support the deposition reaction (Filtvedt et al. 2010). In a free space reaction in the absence of silicon particles it is known that the pyrolysis of silane produces mostly silicon dust and not crystalline silicon. It is also well known that silicon particles must be heated to the range of 650850 C for the deposition of silicon compounds to form polysilicon on silicon particles. Several attempts have been made to combine the information on the lower temperature decomposition and the higher temperature deposition reaction to provide a coherent mechanism that explains the operating chemistry of a silane ﬂuidized-bed reactor (Lai et al. 1986). Homogeneous, Heterogenous, and Scavenging Reactions of Silicon Particles To understand the mechanism of how a silane-based ﬂuidized bed converts silane to silicon one needs to consider the two phases present in the reactor. The bubble phase 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 87 consists of the space between the silicon particles existing as bubbles. The emulsion phase is made up of the silicon particles and the nearby gases. The small silicon particles provide a large surface area for reaction with the gas phase. The three main types of reactions taking place in a silane-based ﬂuidized bed are shown in Fig. 4. The chemistry of the bed can be broken down into three types of reactions. The preferred reaction is the heterogenous decomposition of silane on a silicon particle. The undesirable reaction occurs with the homogeneous thermal decom- position of silane to produce ﬁne silicon dust (Kerner et al. 2003). The favorable scavenging mechanism removes some of the silicon dust by the accretion of dust in the submicron size range onto ﬂuidized silicon particles. The silicon dust then chemically sinters onto the granular particles aided by the heterogeneous reaction. It is possible to understand how this proposed mechanism can explain the observed FB reactor behavior. The heterogeneous reaction beneﬁts from the large surface area provided by the silicon particles. The bubbles and space occupied by the hot gas phase provide a place where the homogeneous reaction produces silicon dust. Some of the dust could migrate to the surface of hot silicon particles that then scavenge the silicon dust. A typical silane ﬂuidized-bed reactor is run at a temperature between 650 C and 850 C to allow the growth of silicon particles by deposition. The ultimate goal is to ﬁnd operating conditions where powder production is limited so that the rate of granular silicon preparation is commercially viable. Powder formation cannot be completely suppressed and some silicon is always formed as a ﬁne dust by-product at the current level of silane FB reactor development. Fig. 4 Three main types of processes found in a silane-based ﬂuidized-bed reactor. They include (1) a heterogenous reaction on the surface of a silicon particle, (2) a homogeneous reaction in the gas phase forming silicon powder, and (3) surface scavenging of silicon powder on a silicon particle followed by deposition 88 L. Jiang et al. The nature of the ﬂuidized-bed reactor further complicates the optimization of granular silicon production. Fluidized-bed reactors provide a highly variable reac- tion environment. Temperature, pressure, concentration, silicon surface area, and many other parameters vary throughout the reactor in a complex way that has to be modeled analytically. There are a large number of physical parameters that must be optimized to control the complex reactions involved in the operation of a ﬂuidized bed to convert silane to polysilicon. Modeling of Silane Fluidized-Bed Reactors The complexity of designing and operating a silane-based ﬂuidized-bed reactor is a daunting task. There are so many challenging issues and complex factors in play that simple intuition and engineering tools have not proven sufﬁcient to solve the problems. One area that shows promise in improving understanding of the process involved is computational ﬂuid dynamics (CFD) modeling (Kunii and Levenspiel 1991). The silane ﬂuidized-bed system represents a complex case that is being developed. Advantages of Using Numerical Simulation The steady improvement in the speed and memory capacity of computers has led to the wide spread use of numerical simulation. This branch of physics and engineering complements experimental and theoretical work by providing an alternative cost- effective means of solving problems. As such it offers the means of testing theoret- ical advances for conditions unavailable experimentally. By using numerical simu- lation, the lead time in design and development is signiﬁcantly reduced. Simulation can provide more detailed and comprehensive information. More importantly, numerical simulation is much cheaper than real-time experimental testing and will become even more so in the future. Classification of Models for Fluid Bed Generally speaking, there are two main categories of models for ﬂuid beds: 1D phenomenological models and detailed CFD models (Filtvedt et al. 2010). Historically, two classes of phenomenological models have been proposed to model ﬂuid beds: the pseudo homogeneous approach and the two-phase approach (Yang 2003). The conventional pseudo homogeneous model, where only one phase is taken into account, may include ideal ﬂow models, dispersion models, and residence time distribution models. Due to lack of accuracy, the use of this approach has been slowly dropped. The two-phase model assumes that the bed can be divided into a bubble phase and an emulsion phase. The bubble phase contains a large gas voidance and very little solids. The emulsion phase contains most of the bed particles. The two-phase model was originally proposed by Toomy (1952). Detailed CFD models solve the mass, momentum, and energy equations on a point-to-point approach to compute local variables. There are several approaches 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 89 used in detailed CFD models, each making a tradeoff between the modeling effort and the computational cost. Greater physical resolution reduces the modeling effort, but increases the computational cost. Generally speaking, there are two main categories: the Euler-Euler model and the Euler Lagrangian model. In the Euler-Euler model, both the gas phase and solid phase are treated as an interpenetrating continuum. The conservation equations are solved for each phase with phase interaction terms and constitutive relations. In the Euler- Lagrangian model, the solids are treated as a discrete phase. This model is more realistic, but is computationally more intensive and assumptions are made (Pannala et al. 2010). Modeling of a Silane Fluid Bed Several research groups have investigated modeling of a silane-based FBR for silicon production. The main models are reviewed below: Historically, there are many variations of two-phase models for ﬂuidized bed and the Kunii and Levenspiel (1991) model has wide spread use for the bubbling ﬂuidized bed. In this model, the bubble diameter can be kept invariant through the bed and is treated as a ﬁtting parameter. An alternative is to allow the bubble size to vary along the bed axis. The initial bubble diameter formed at the surface of a perforated and of a porous gas distribution plate can be calculated from the following equations, respectively: db0 ¼ 1:3 g0:2 u0  umf Nor   (29) db0 ¼ 2:78 g u0  umf  2, (30) where umf is the ﬂuidization velocity of the bed, u0 is the superﬁcial gas velocity, g is the gravity acceleration, Nor is the number of oriﬁces per unit area. The bubble growth at any level z in the bed can be correlated as: db ¼ 0:0085 1 þ 27 u0  umf   1=3 1 þ 6:8z ð Þ1:2: (31) The rise velocity of the bubbles can be calculated as Ub ¼ 0:71 ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ gdb p þ u0  umf : (32) The volume fraction occupied by bubbles can be calculated as δ ¼ u0  umf ub : (33) The interchange coefﬁcient of gas between bubble and the emulsion can be calculated as 90 L. Jiang et al. kbe ¼ 4:5 umf db : (34) umf can be calculated by the Ergun equation as below 1:75 e3 mf ϕs Re2 mf þ 150 1  emf   e3 mf ϕ2 s Remf ¼ d3 pρg ρs  ρg   g μ2 (35) and Remf ¼ ρgumf dp μ , (36) where emf is void fraction of the ﬂuidized bed at a minimum ﬂuidization, φs is the sphericity of the particles, ρs is the particle density, ρg is the gas density, dp is the diameter of the particle, and μ is the viscosity of the gas. By making a simple mass balance and noting the reactant gas A (in our case silane), we only consider the homogenous reaction in the bubble phase δU b dCAb dz ¼ δkhomCAb þ kbe CAb  CAe ð Þ: (37) And in the emulsion phase, only the heterogeneous reaction is considered  1  δ ð Þumf dCAe dz ¼ 1  δ ð Þ 1  emf   khetCAe  δkbe CAb  CAe ð Þ, (38) where CAb means the concentration of reactant A in the bubble phase and CAe means the concentration of reactant A in the emulsion phase. Where the rise velocity of the bubble gas, not just the bubble is U b ¼ ub þ 3umf : (39) Several researchers have used the two-phase model to study silane pyrolysis in a ﬂuidized bed. Caussat et al. (1995) used four different models to compare with his experiment data. He concluded that the ﬁnes are mainly formed by wall deposition rather than homogeneous decomposition in the bed, which is in disagreement with other studies (Hsu et al. 1987), but he used nitrogen as carrying gas, rather than hydrogen, which can be responsible for the different results. Lai et al. (1986) applied both an ideal back mix reactor model and the two-phase ﬂuidized model to simulate a silane FBR. In his model, similar to Hsus proposal, there are nine different reaction pathways. He also used the method of moments to count the population balance for ﬁnes. His model predictions show reasonable agreement with experimental results. The continuous stirred tank reactor (CSTR) model yields an upper estimate on the production rate and the ﬂuidized-bed bubbling 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 91 reactor (FBBR) model overpredicts the formation of ﬁnes. It concludes that in order to suppress ﬁnes formation, a reactor needs to have good gas-solid contacting in the gas inlet distributor region and suppress bubbles formation. Later Pina et al. (2006) used the two-phase model approach to simulate a spouted ﬂuidized-bed reactor. In a spouted ﬂuidized bed, the inlet gas is intro- duced through a spout nozzle at the bottom of the bed rather than a distributor plate. In his model, two regions in series are taken into account, a spout zone in the bottom followed by a ﬂuidized-bed region. A new set of equations is used to model the spout region exchanging gas between the spout and surrounding dense emulsion. He also used a detailed population balance equation to model particle size distribution in the reactor. Two adjustable parameters, a scavenging coefﬁ- cient and an agglomeration constant, have to be ﬁtted to the experimental data for each case and then correlated as a function of the silane concentration. Then the model was tested for longer experimental runs and found to have good agreement with the data. Kimura and Kojima (1991) used a simpliﬁed two-phase model for a silane FBR, where the bubble diameter is invariant throughout the bed and is treated as a ﬁtting parameter. They only considered two reaction pathways: the homogenous reaction to form ﬁnes and the heterogeneous reaction to deposit on the particles. Their simula- tion results are compared with experimental data by Hsu et al. (1987). The experi- mental tendency of increasing of ﬁnes elutriation with increasing silane concentration or increasing bed temperature can be explained well. However, at higher bed temperature, the numerical results of ﬁnes elutriation are much higher than the experimental data. As the author pointed out, it can be due to the lack of a scavenging effect in their model. Eulerian-Eulerian CFD Model Eulerian-Eulerian modeling is the most commonly used approach for ﬂuidized-bed simulations because it can handle large industrial-scale geometries. The general idea is to formulate a multiﬂuid model to treat both solid phase and gas phase as an interpenetrating continuum and therefore to construct integral balances of mass, momentum, and energy for both phases. Appropriate boundary conditions and jump conditions will be applied at the interfaces to account for the discontinuity effect. Mass conservation equations of gas and solid phases: @ @t αgρg   þ  αgρg Vg !   ¼ 0 (40) @ @t αsρs ð Þ þ  αsρs Vs !   ¼ 0: (41) Momentum conservation equations of gas and solid phases: 92 L. Jiang et al. @ @t αgρg Vg !   þ  @ @t αgρg Vg ! Vg !   ¼ αgp þ  τ þ αgρg g ! þ Kgs Vg !  Vs !   (42) @ @t αsρs Vs !   þ  @ @t αsρs Vs ! Vs !   ¼ αsp  Ps þ  τ þ αsρs g ! Kgs Vg !  Vs !   : (43) The drag between gas and solid phase is one of the dominant forces in gas-solid ﬂuidized-bed applications. There are many correlations in the literature for calculat- ing the momentum exchange coefﬁcient Kgs which may have different ranges of application. The solid phase momentum equation contains an additional term called solid pressure, Ps to account for particle-particle collisions. The stress term in solid phase momentum transfer is normally computed by using kinetic theory. MFIX (Multiphase Flow with Interphase Exchange) is an open-source CFD (computational ﬂuid dynamics) code developed and maintained by NETL (National Energy Technology Laboratory), and it is a powerful tool for the simulation of ﬂuidized beds using the Eulerian-Eulerian method. Cadoret et al. (2007) performed silane FBR experiments, and the MFIX code was used for simulation. They used nitrogen as carrier gas and dense alumina powders as deposition seeds, both of which are rarely used in industry. They did both 2D and 3D simulations and found that 2D simulation results are very inaccurate and that 2D simulations were not suitable for ﬂuidized-bed modeling. Later, they performed another group of 3D simulations (Reuge et al. 2009), in which they used detailed silane reaction kinetics. Besides determining which kinetic model is more appropriate, they concluded that there is a strong interaction between bed hydrodynamics and reaction chemistry. Also, silicon deposition from silane mainly occurs in the dense zones of the bed where silylene (SiH2) does much of the work within the bubble phase and at its periphery. Particle-in-Cell Method The Eulerian-Eulerian approach has trouble modeling ﬂows with a distribution of particle types and sizes because separate governing equations must be solved for each of them and it can be too computationally intensive. The traditional Eulerian- Lagrangian approach will treat each particle as a tracking element and resolve the ﬂuid ﬂow around each particle with a no-slip condition. This saves the efforts of developing closure models, but is so computationally intense that only a small number of particles and a small domain of ﬂuid can be realistically done. The particle-in-cell (PIC) method is based on the Eulerian-Lagrangian approach, but also combines the good features of the Eulerian-Eulerian approach to make it computationally affordable. Like the regular Eulerian-Langrangian model, PIC employs a ﬁxed Eulerian grid and Lagrangian particles, but rather than resolving ﬂuid ﬂow around each particle, it averages the ﬂuid ﬂow over a spatial region 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 93 containing a number of particles. Also, the particles are not tracked one by one, but a collection of particles called numerical particles are solved together, and both the interactions of the particles and ﬂuid-particle momentum transfer are calculated through closure models on the Eulerian grid. Particle properties are interpolated to the grid and the ﬂow ﬁeld on the grid is interpolated back to the particles. Solid Phase Equation: dus dt ¼ Ds ug  us    1 ρs p þ g  1 αsρs τs ¼ 0, (44) where Ds is the drag function and τs is the particle normal stress due to collisions, αs is the particle volume fraction. Mass and momentum conservation equations For the gas: @ @t αgρg   þ  αgρg Vg !   ¼ 0 (45) @ @t αgρg Vg !   þ  @ @t αgρg Vg ! Vg !   ¼ p þ  αgτ   þ αgρg g ! þF, (46) where F is the rate of momentum exchange between the ﬂuid and particles per unit volume. Barracuda is a commercial software owned by CPFD, (https://cpfd-software.com) that successfully implemented the PIC method to solve particle ﬂuid interaction problems, which has more and more wide spread use in industry. Parker (2011) simulated JPL silane FBR experiments (Hsu et al. 1987) by using Barracuda. A simple empirical ﬁrst order silane reaction mechanism is adopted in his simulation and both homogenous and heterogenous reaction rate data are taken from the literature. A constant scavenging coefﬁcient is used to capture the scavenging effect and was found to reasonably capture the trend of the experiments. The simulation results can predict the temperature gradient inside the bed fairly well in comparison with exper- imental measurements. The simulation can also reproduce the ﬁnes production rate with changing silane concentration in the feed gas. The effect of the distributor type was examined and found that a nozzle type inlet would create a spouted bed and a screen mesh inlet would result in much more uniform gas distribution and a much better performing bubbling bed, which is also consistent with the experimental results. Multiscale Modeling There are different time scales in the complicated physics of silane ﬂuidized-bed reactors. The chemical reaction is almost instantaneous, and the hydrodynamics can take few seconds to gain equilibrium, while the particle size growth may take hours and days to reach steady state. In order to capture all the time scales, Balaji et al. (2010) developed a multiscale model for a silane FBR by coupling the CFD solver COMSOL and the equation solver MATLAB. The hydrodynamics are solved by the CFD module in COMSOL, which provides information to a CVD module in MATLAB. The CVD module calculates the overall production rate and feeds it to 94 L. Jiang et al. population balance module in MATLAB. The population balance module calculates the particle size distribution and gives an average particle diameter to feed the CFD module to start another round of computation. The simulation results were validated by experiments. Operation of a Silane-Based Fluidized-Bed Reactor to Make Silicon The operation of a silane-based ﬂuidized bed reactor is relatively complex and provides unique difﬁculties when compared to the operation of most other industrial FB reactors. In order to understand the state of this technology it is necessary to review many of the operation steps that are encountered in a FB plant to make silicon from silane. Feed Gas to the Fluidized-Bed Reactor One of the key factors in optimizing silicon deposition and reactor production rate is the SiH4/H2 mole ratio of the feed gas. Ideally one would prefer to use 100% silane as the feed gas in order to maximize reaction productivity, but this would result in the formation of a large amount of silicon dust. Powder formation can be reduced by diluting the silane feed gas with hydrogen. The optimum feed gasconcentration has been found to be between 10% to 30% silane in hydrogen depending on the reactor operating conditions and geometry (Filtvedt 2013). This amount of hydrogen does not eliminate powder formation, but reduces it to acceptable levels. The hydrogen acts primarily as a diluent to reduce the concentration of silane and thereby reduce the reaction rate. As the major component in the ﬂuidizing gas, the viscosity, thermal conductivity, heat capacity, and other physical properties of hydrogen play a vital part in maintaining the ﬂuidization and reactions in the ﬂuidized bed. The hydrogen is recycled after passing through the ﬂuidized-bed reactor. The hydrogen, unreacted silane, and other reaction by-products can be cryogenically separated. The hydrogen is returned to the reactor and mixed with silane to continue the operation of the ﬂuidized bed. The unreacted silane is puriﬁed and recycled back to the reactor. Preheating the Feed Gas One of the most challenging aspects of operating a silane-based ﬂuidized-bed reactor is the control of heat and temperature. It is difﬁcult to introduce enough heat through the reactor walls into the reactor interior to achieve the optimum reaction tempera- ture. In a typical reactor one would increase the temperature of the reactor walls to obtain the desired amount of heat transfer to the reactants. This option must be approached with caution for a silane-based process because it would greatly increase 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 95 silicon deposition on the reactor walls. The ﬂuidized silicon particles need to be heated from the reactor wall so that they can then heat the feed gas to the reaction temperature. This heat transfer has to be accomplished in such a way as to minimize the temperature of the reactor wall. The use of a preheater to increase the temperature of the of the feed gas has proved useful. The temperature of the preheater is limited by the reactivity of silane. It is undesirable to decompose the silane in the preheater to form silicon dust or to deposit silicon. Given the decomposition temperature of silane, the feed gas is typically heated to less than 400 C depending on the operating conditions and structure of the preheater (Filtvedt et al. 2012). The remainder of the heat energy to bring the feed gases up reaction temperature of over 700 C must come from the heated walls and heated ﬂuidized silicon particles. Many different arrangements have been studied for introducing heated feed gases into the reactor. One patented approach involves heating hydrogen to over 1000 C and using this hot hydrogen as the sole source of heat for the reactor. As the hydrogen is mixed with the silane, the reaction gas is brought quickly to reaction temperature (Spangler and Stucki 2015). Distributor and Jet Nozzles to Introduce the Feed Gas The feed gas is typically introduced into the bottom of the reactor through a distributor or jet nozzles. The distributor consists of many oriﬁces that spread the feed gas out over the bottom surface of the reactor to make uniform ﬂuidization of the silicon particles possible. Jetnozzles consist of tubes with designed shapes and diameters that can inject the feed gas stream further into the reactor bed. Jets offer the ability to direct the ﬂow of gases and increase the gas velocity into the bed of granular silicon. One approach in the patent literature, which makes use of the ability to aim the ﬂow from the distributor proposes directing hydrogen towards the wall of the reactor to reduce the amount of silicon deposition on the reactor wall. (Kulkarni et al. 2013). One major challenge is to ensure that the temperature of the distributor or jets is kept below the reaction temperature of silane as feed gas passes through the distributor to the reactor. Much of the heat that warms the distributor comes from the heated silicon particles that migrate from hot parts of the reactor. The granular particles can be at the reaction temperature which is well above the decomposition temperature for silane. The objective is to keep the bottom of the reactor with the distributor or jet nozzles cool enough to prevent the premature decomposition of silane to silicon deposits or dust that will plug the jet nozzles or the distributor oriﬁces. There have been several approaches in the patent literature for cooling of the distributor. Most of the methods use cooling ﬂuids to reduce the temperature of the distributor to below the decomposition temperature of silane. The major differences between the many distributor and jet designs are in the placement of holes for the feed gases and channels for the cooling ﬂuids. 96 L. Jiang et al. The plugging of the distributor and jets is a signiﬁcant problem for the long- term operation of a ﬂuidized bed. Dust can easily plug the narrow gas oriﬁces and disrupt the ﬂow of feed gas and the ﬂuidization of the bed. Large chunks of silicon from agglomeration of silicon particles or from the walls of the reactor can drop to the bottom of the reactor and plug the gas inlets. The only way to clear such blockages is to empty the reactor and remove the silicon responsible for stopping the gas ﬂow. Different Designs for Heating Silane-Based Fluidized-Bed Reactors The main source of heat that brings the silicon particles and feed gas up to reaction temperature comes from the heated reactor walls, which conduct thermal energy to the silicon particles that come in contact with the wall. The heat is distributed to the gas throughout the reactor by the movement of the ﬂuidized particles. There are several different types of reactor designs that have been proposed. The simplest design is a common hot wall metal reactor structure (Type 1), as shown in Fig. 5a. The Type 1 reactor is typical of many ﬂuidized-bed reactors where the heated metal walls of the reactor come in contact with the feed gases and ﬂuidized silicon particles (Gautreaux and Allen 1988). At the reaction temperature of over 600 C the diffusion rate of metals such as iron throughout the silicon deposited on the wall is sufﬁciently rapid that metals are spread to the ﬂuidized silicon particles by contact with the silicon deposited on the reactor wall. More recent designs to improve product purity included the use of an inert liner (Type 2) for the inside of the reactor (see Fig. 5b). The liner is typically constructed with a hard-ceramic material to reduce the wall erosion by the ﬂuidized silicon particles. A more recent approach has the placement of the heating elements inside the metal pressure containment vessel as shown in Fig. 6 (Kim et al. 2010). An inert liner is placed next to the heating elements as shown below: Heat to bring the ﬂuidized bed up to reactor temperature comes from two sources. As mentioned above a preheater brings the reactants from low temperature to above Fig. 5 Reactor designs using resistive heaters to provide thermal energy to the reactor. Type 1 reactor (Fig. 5a) has a metal wall. In Type 2 (Fig. 5b) the reactor has a liner that helps to reduce metal contamination to the ﬂuidized silicon particles 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 97 300 C. The ﬁnal heat source is the heated reactor walls which supply the bulk of the thermal energy and which brings the ﬂuidized-bed reactor temperature to above 600 C. In addition to electrical resistance heating, induction heating has proven to be a useful method for introducing the necessary amount of heat energy into a silane- based ﬂuidized-bed reactor (Clary and Wikman 1993). One of the advantages of induction heating is that it can bring a large amount of thermal energy uniformly into a large area of the reactor wall. Below is a diagram showing one of many patented reactor designs that utilize induction heating (Fig. 7): This unit consists of a reaction chamber that is surrounded by the induction unit. Next to the chamber is a susceptor that is heated by the induction coils. After the susceptor is heated by the induction coils the susceptor brings that reactor wall up to reaction temperature. Between the induction coils and the susceptor is insulation that holds most of the heat within the reactor. Another approach to reactor design for silane FB reactors involves separating the FB reactor into zones (Iya 1989). It has been mentioned that the distributor can be Fig. 6 Cold wall reactor. Going from outside of the reactor toward the inner reactor chamber, which holds the granular silicon, one encounters the following: (1) outer reactor pressure wall, (2) a layer of insulation, (3) a heating element, (4) the reactor liner, (5) the inner reactor chamber Fig. 7 Reactor with external induction heating (Clary and Wikman 1993). Going from outside to the heating unit includes the following: induction coils on the outside followed by a layer of insulation. Next comes a susceptor that is next to the pressure wall of the reactor. The heated susceptor conducts heat to the reactor wall 98 L. Jiang et al. cooled to prevent silicon deposition while the reactor is heated to create two temperature zones. Another approach is to try to heat different parts of the reactor to different temperatures. The idea is to limit the locations where silane decompo- sition and the deposition can occur to speciﬁc areas in a reactor. Given the violent nature of mixing in a ﬂuidized-bed reactor, the ability to control the temperature at speciﬁc zones in a reactor is limited. Reactor design remains one of the areas that holds the most promise for improving the efﬁciency of a silane ﬂuidized-bed reactors operation. Companies continue to build commercial scale reactors with innovative designs. Modeling of the FB reactors remains an important tool for evaluating different thermal designs before they are built and for operating the reactors after they have been constructed. Reactor Dimensions, Pressure, and Silicon Production Rate Factors such as reactor height and diameter are critical to the operation of a ﬂuidized- bed reactor (Filtvedt et al. 2012). The height of the ﬂuidized-bed reactor can affect the residence time of the feed gas, the silane conversion and the residence time for scavenging of powders. Pressure is an important variable when optimizing a silane FB reactor. With greater pressure one is able to increase the production rate due to increased mass feed rate. Building a reactor to operate at greater pressure at high temperatures involves greater design complexity and a reduced safety margin. Working with a feed gas at higher pressure means that silane will be at a higher concentration and the ﬂuidization properties of the gas phase will be different than at lower pressures. The diameter of the reactor is a major factor in determining the FB reactor bed capacity. Since the heating of the silicon particles to the reaction temperature typically occurs through the walls of the reactor, the amount of wall heating surface area is important. The surface to volume ratio of the reactor decreases with increas- ing diameter. A larger diameter reactor may allow the processing of more silane, but it becomes more difﬁcult to heat the contents uniformly. Agglomeration of Silicon Particles One area of practical concern in operating a FB reactor is the agglomeration of silicon particles. Chunks of agglomerated silicon particles can form in the reactor where ﬂuidization may be reduced due to particle segregation or dead ﬂow zones. In underﬂuidized areas within the FB reactor chemical sintering of particles can form agglomerates which settle to the bottom of the reactor and block the distributor or the jet nozzles. Agglomeration can become a problem that slowly develops for a FB 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 99 campaign lasting several months. Such blockages necessitate the shutdown of the reaction. Filtvedt et al. (2012) discuss the relationship between the Tamman temperature and the agglomeration of silicon particles. The Tamman temperature is the temperature at which mobility of molecules in a solid becomes appreciable. Above the Tamman temperature the surface reactivity and wetting properties of a material become strong enough to allow powder to stick to the surface. For silicon, the Tamman temperature is 610 C. In a FB reactor run at 650850 C the sticking of silicon powder onto the surface of a silicon particle as shown in the earlier scavenging mechanism is favorable for the growth of silicon particles. Unfortunately, the adhering together of several larger silicon particles presents a problem if chunks of silicon form and fall to the bottom of the reactor. At the bottom of the reactor the heavier chunks of silicon have limited motion but continue to grow as they interact with the silane feed gas. Similarly, when pieces of silicon detach from the wall, they drop to the bottom of the reactor and continue to increase in size. It is necessary to ﬁnd ﬂow conditions such that scavenging of silicon dust on granular silicon particles can occur, but agglomeration of bigger particles is minimized. Control of the Silicon Particle Size Distribution in the Reactor In order to operate the ﬂuidized-bed reactor in a continuous mode it is necessary to maintain the size distribution of silicon particles nearly constant while the particles grow. This can be accomplished by periodically feeding smaller silicon seed parti- cles and removing particles that have grown larger. To keep the FB operating continuously, a portion of the product needs to be reduced in size and returned to the reactor as seed particles so that the particle size distribution is maintained in a favorable range for ﬂuidization and silicon growth. The content of the ﬂuidized bed has a distribution of particle sizes because of the constant mixing and motion from the normal ﬂuidizing action within the bed. The favored method for monitoring the granular particle size distribution is by commer- cial instruments which use digital photography to measure a stream of silicon particles passing in front of a camera. The digital image can be analyzed by computer to determine particle size and shape. A plot of particle size distribution of a statistically signiﬁcant number of particles can be used to monitor the particle size distribution in the FB reactor. The digital image method for to monitoring the particle size distribution is used because it is both rapid and accurate compared to screening the particle using a sieve. The size reduction of the silicon particles needs to be accomplished in such a way as to minimize contamination of the silicon with metals. Contamination must be reduced by using equipment that is coated with hard, nonmetallic materials. The grinding of silicon is especially challenging because silicon is such a hard substance with a Mohr harness of 7 (Lide 2008). 100 L. Jiang et al. Factors to Consider When Optimizing Silicon Particle Size Distribution Particle size distribution determines the ﬂow rates of feed hydrogen and silane gas that are required to maintain ﬂuidization. Larger particles require a greater ﬂow rate to suspend particles. At some point as the velocity of feed gas increases the conversion rate will decrease due to reduced gas residence time. Controlling particle size is a major factor in optimizing a stable reacting bed. It is most important to maintain stable reactor bed and ﬂuidization state during reactor operation. Without a stable bed, a commercial process would not be feasible. One needs dependable reactors that can run for weeks or months in a predictable and controllable fashion. Based on experience with ﬂuidized bed operated with many particle size distributions, it has been possible to determine the range of particles sizes that offer the best chance for long-term stability. For most silane-based FB reactors the mean particle size ranges from 500 to 1500 microns in diameter (Filtvedt et al. 2013). The relationship between particle size and ease of ﬂuidization is presented earlier in the discussion on the Geldart classiﬁcation of particles. Because of their ease of handling and of ﬂuidization, larger particles in Geldart Groups B and D are favored for silicon ﬂuidized beds, see Fig. 2. From this discussion on ﬂuidization, heat transfer, and reactivity of silicon particles as a function of particle size distribution, it is clear why modeling of the complex reaction bed is vital. All of the above factors can be calculated and introduced into a model that can describe the physical state of the ﬂuidized bed. Silicon Powder Formation and Handling in a Fluidized-Bed Reactor One of the major deﬁciencies of silane base ﬂuidized-bed production of silicon is the production of silicon dust (Hsu et al. 1984). As discussed earlier, powder formation is the result of homogeneous decomposition of silane trapped in bubbles between silicon particles and any silane present in the free space above the reactor bed. Several techniques have been considered to reduce powder formation. One approach is to increase the residence time in the bed by reducing the particle size and the feed gas ﬂow rate (Gautreaux and Allen 1988). Under this condition the amount of silicon dust is signiﬁcantly reduced because there is more time for the silane gas to react. The silicon powder is more likely to be captured on the surface of a silicon particle. The downside to reducing the ﬂow rate of silane is that the output of polysilicon is reduced. Another approach to reduce powder formation is to inject cool hydrogen into the top of the reactor above the ﬂuidized bed of silicon to lower the temperature of silane in the off gas below its reaction temperature (Allen 1988). Hwang (1999) looked at injecting hydrogen chloride into the FB reactor to eliminate silicon dust. Hydrogen chloride reacts with silicon particles to form trichlorosilane and to elim- inate silicon powder as observed in Siemens reactor operation. There has been a 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 101 patent issued for equipment to reduce the size of bubbles in the FB reactor in an attempt to limit the homogeneous reaction that produces dust within the bubbles (Spangler and Miller 2016). Currently silicon dust formation appears to be inevitable during the operation of the FB reactor with silane. One approach that has been patented is to collect the silicon powder and pelletize it for use in other applications (Hariharan et al. 2007). The formation of silicon dust from silane remains an area of active research (Wyller et al. 2016). The preferred option is to ﬁnd reactor conditions that minimize silicon dust formation. Removing the Silicon Deposited on the Reactor Wall Another downside to the use of silane-based FB reactors is silicon deposition on the inside reactor wall that must be periodically removed. Because the hottest part of the reactor is its walls, the space near the walls is the most chemically active part of the reactor. As the thickness of deposited silicon on the reactor wall increases over time the heating characteristics of the wall change. Eventually the silicon producing ﬂuidized-bed reactor must be shut down to remove the reactor wall deposits. Several techniques have been developed for lengthening the time between reactor shut downs for silicon removal from the walls. One obvious method is to minimize the temperature on the walls to reduce silicon deposition. Another approach men- tioned earlier is to ﬂow hydrogen or an inert gas along the wall surface to reduce the concentration of silane on the reactor wall (Kulkarni et al. 2013). Proposals to install bafﬂes in the reactor have been made to dilute silane next to the wall and to reduce the exposure of the reactor wall to silane (Bhusarapu et al. 2015). Despite all efforts to minimize the deposition of silicon on the walls of the reactor, a point is reached where it is necessary to remove the silicon layer that has formed on the reactor walls. The buildup of silicon on the reactor walls leads to several problems. As the layer of silicon becomes thicker, the transfer of heat from the wall and through the silicon layer becomes less efﬁcient. As the silicon deposits become thicker, the probability of chunks of silicon breaking off the wall and falling to the bottom of the reactor increases. The primary method for removing silicon deposited on the reactor wall is to chemically remove the silicon. The reactor can be emptied of granular silicon and then a gas mixture containing hydrogen chloride (HCl) is passed over the deposited silicon to convert the deposited silicon to chlorosilanes. The reactor walls have to be heated to achieve an acceptable silicon etch rate: Si þ 3HCl ! HSiCl3 þ H2: (47) By using dry hydrogen chloride with a very low water content and diluting the hydrogen chloride with hydrogen, it has proven possible to etch off the silicon from the reactor wall and to minimize corrosion of the metal parts of the reactor (Chung and Sturm 2007). 102 L. Jiang et al. Safety Issue with Silane and Hydrogen Although it is often not stated, safety is one of the major concerns when operating a ﬂuidized-bed reactor to produce silicon. Both silane and hydrogen can form explo- sive mixtures when combined with air. In addition, silane is pyrophoric and com- busts spontaneously in contact with air. One is faced with the possibility that any leaks or failures in parts of the plant piping containing hydrogen and silane could result in ﬁres or explosions. The risk factor is increased because the reactor is operated at such a high temperature. All parts of plant design must take into consideration the inherent dangers encountered with hydrogen and silane-based processes. Atmospheric Contamination of Silicon Unlike many chemical processes, nitrogen cannot be used as an inert gas for high temperature silicon processes such as the ﬂuidized bed. The safety issue arrives from the fact that at elevated temperatures above 900 C silicon reacts with nitrogen to form silicon nitride (Riley 2000): 3 Si þ 2 N2 ! Si3N4: (48) The reaction of silicon and nitrogen is quite exothermic so that there is a danger of with thermal runaway. The reaction between silicon and nitrogen may start slowly but if the heat generated is not dispersed, the temperature of the silicon will rise and further increase the reaction rate. Often argon is required as a blanket gas when dealing with high-purity silicon. Since hydrogen is used as a reaction gas and is available, it is often used as the blanket gas above hot silicon. In addition to considering the reaction of nitrogen and silicon at elevated tem- peratures, the interaction between silicon and oxygen is an issue. Any silicon surface exposed to air or other source of oxygen at room temperature or above will instantaneously form multiple atomic layers of silicon oxide. This formation of an oxide outer layer becomes more of an issue when dealing with granular silicon because of the greater surface area provided by the small particles of silicon. In the ﬂuidized-bed reactor and the silicon handling lines, it is preferred to eliminate oxygen and keep the silicon covered with an inert gas or hydrogen. Current Status of Commercial Research and Development of Silane Fluidized-Bed Reactors As noted above, there are many industrial processes that have successfully used ﬂuidized-bed technology in chemical processes. Such processes are developed and optimized over a number of years and reach a stage where the process is predictable and stable on the commercial scale. The use of a ﬂuidized bed for the 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 103 deposition of silane to produce high purity silicon has not followed this pattern. Even though the theoretical advantages of ﬂuidized bed for silane deposition are well recognized, the actual development of the technology has proven to be difﬁcult. Over the last few years REC, GCL, and SunEdison have all operated commercial scale silicon production plants and have gained experience with silane-based ﬂuidized-bed silane units (Bernreuter 2014). There are several FB reactor projects currently under construction in China (Roselund 2015). Despite decades of experience with the silane-based FB technology, challenges still remain before the technology can compete with the Siemens process. The difﬁ- culties result from the nature of the reaction that is being carried out and the need to resolve conﬂicting factors. The optimization of the silane-based ﬂuidized-bed technology has proven to be complex and has not reached its theoretical potential. Most of the issues found when designing and running a FB silicon plant have been discussed above. The following is an organized list of ﬁve largely unique, complex, and interrelated issues that are encountered while operating a silane deposition FB reactor: 1. Silicon particle deposition versus powder formation: In a silane ﬂuidized-bed reactor, there are competing reactions between the desired deposition of silane onto silicon particles and the undesirable formation of very ﬁne silicon powder. In practice one cannot eliminate powder formation. It is important to develop techniques for minimizing the amount of silicon powder produced. Reactor design and operating regime is critical in minimizing powder formation in a FB reactor. The goal is to minimize the volume of silane that is heated above its reaction temperatures when the silane is not in contact with a silicon surface. For a ﬂuidized-bed reactor, this means limiting slugging and reducing the size of bubbles. 2. Agglomeration of silicon particles: At the high temperature that a silane-based FB reactor operates, agglomeration of silicon particles can become a problem. Large chunks of silicon particles made up of many attached silicon particles can disrupt the ﬂow of feed gas and silicon particles in the reactor. One must ﬁnd reactor conditions such that silicon particles will not interact sufﬁciently to allow agglomeration to occur. At the same time, it is important to encourage the scavenging reaction where silicon dust adheres to silicon particles and adds to the growth of individual silicon particles. 3. Depositing silicon on the reactor walls: By design, silicon is mostly deposited on the silicon particles in the reactor, but it is inevitable that some silicon deposition occurs on the reactor walls. Deposition on the vessel walls becomes a signiﬁcant issue if the reactor is heated through the walls and the walls are the hottest points in the reactor where silicon will preferentially be deposited. Much effort in reactor design has been expended to reduce wall deposition. Approaches using the bottom distributor or jets to blanket the walls with hydro- gen or inert gas have been patented (Kulkarni et al. 2013). Other approaches using bafﬂes have been suggested (Osborne et al. 2011). The ultimate answer to 104 L. Jiang et al. minimizing wall deposition may be found in developing novel approaches to heating the reactor. 4. Heating the reactor bed to a high reaction temperature: By its nature, a ﬂuidized- bed reactor requires extensive heating. There is a large, continuous energy demand to heat the incoming gas and maintain ﬂuidization of the silicon particles at the reaction temperature. Several different heating designs have been presented. Reactor design has centered around using electrical resistance or induction heating to supply the necessary thermal energy to the reactor. The problem is to ﬁnd a reactor design such that sufﬁcient heat can be introduced while minimizing silicon wall deposition and dust formation and optimize growth of granular silicon. 5. Achieving high purity in the product silicon: Operating cost and product purity are the most important factors in evaluating FB silicon. Specifications for Polycrystalline Silicon for PV Applications Polysilicon with higher purity yields solar cells with higher efﬁciencies. Even with the use of high-purity silane and high-purity silicon particles, processing of materials in the ﬂuidized-bed reactor requires special techniques and materials to prevent contamination. Materials of construction and environmental elements such as oxy- gen and carbon in the plant can contaminate the silicon product. It is challenging to build and operate a silicon plant where contamination in the product silicon is maintained below the ppm (6 N) level. Because the main purpose for producing polysilicon using FB technology or the Siemens process is to obtain silicon sufﬁciently pure for photovoltaic and semicon- ductor applications, it is worth discussing how high-purity polysilicon is obtained and analyzed. Handling of polysilicon has to be done in such a way that the silicon does not come in contact with any metal or material that could cause contamination. At low temperatures, the polysilicon particles can be handled in plastic lined containers or tubes. At high temperatures, inert liners and hard coatings are neces- sary to protect ﬂuidized silicon from contamination. The determination of metals in polysilicon down to the 6 N and 9 N levels has been revolutionized by the use of the analytical technique of inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS). Silicon samples can be dissolved in a hydroﬂuoric acid/nitric acid solution, vaporized in a plasma, and analyzed by mass spectroscopy after sample workup. Metals and other impurities can be monitored in silicon down to the ppb level or below using ICP-MS. Analysis for dopants such as boron and phosphorous can be carried out by low temperature infrared (IR) analysis. It is necessary to prepare an appropriate silicon sample for IR analysis by growing single crystal rods of the granular silicon product. The organization SEMI (Semi- conductor Equipment and Materials International) and other international organiza- tions provides approved analytical methods and standards for the analysis of polysilicon. (SEMI 2013). 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 105 Improving FB Technology with Modeling These ﬁve problem areas listed above form the basis for improving silane FB reactor technology. The issues are interrelated in complex ways. With such complicated interactions occurring simultaneously, optimizing silane-based FB technology can be a complex task. Reactor modeling offers a way to evaluate several of the issues at the same time. Using simulation methods differing reactor conﬁgurations and operating conditions can be tested before building a reactor. The effects of changing parameters such as temperature, ﬂow rate, concentration, and pressure while operating a FB reactor can be difﬁcult to anticipate. Reactor modeling can provide insights into trends and fundamental chemical and ﬂuid mechanical mechanisms. Summary and Conclusions There is renewed interest in the use of the ﬂuidized-bed process for commercial production of polysilicon for solar applications. Fluidized-bed technology and its continuous processing shows promise as a means to signiﬁcantly reduce the price of polysilicon. The process uses considerably less electrical energy than the competing Siemens process. Silane-based ﬂuidized-bed reactors produce granular polysilicon, this reduces the cost of downstream crystallization processing. There has been a gradual improvement in silane technology but there remains a large difference between the commercial state of the process and the theoretical poten- tial for improvement. The developing photovoltaic market for silicon has pro- mpted several companies to further investigate the ﬂuidized-bed route to high- purity polysilicon. The downside to the use of the silane-based ﬂuidized-bed process is that the installed capital cost is higher and it is more difﬁcult to operate than a Siemens plant. As with all ﬂuidized-bed units, the reactor operation is very dynamic and prone to upsets. Silicon powder formation is a constant problem along with agglomeration of silicon. Cleaning the walls of deposited silicon is a periodic maintenance task. The issue of scalability remains. If FB silicon is to overtake silicon produced by the Siemens process, FB plants will have to be able to produce ever larger amounts of polysilicon. This means that larger and more productive FB reactors will have to be designed and operated. Because of the unpredictability of scale up in FB plants, it is difﬁcult to predict if scaled up FB reactor will operate successfully. The one overriding issue that ultimately could determine the success of silicon FB technology is the purity of the silicon can be produced. Roughly, optimized FB silicon plants of today can produce material which has impurities in the 6 N to 9 N level (IHS 2014). Siemens product is often in the 9 N to 11 N range. Higher solar cell efﬁciencies require higher purity silicon. FB silicon will eventually have to be superior to Siemens product not only in cost but also nearly equal in purity. 106 L. Jiang et al. References R.H. Allen, U.S. Patent 4,748,052, 1988 J. Baeyens, D. Geldart, Chem. Eng. Sci. 29, 255265 (1974) S. Balaji, J. Du, C.M. White, E. Ydstie, Powder Technol. 199, 23 (2010) J. Bernreuter, FBR Polysilicon Technology  Promise or Hype? (PV-Tech, 2014.) www.pv-tech.org/ guest-blog/fbr_polysilicon_technology_promise_or_hype. Accessed 2 March 2017 J. Bernreuter, Cut-throat Competition on the Polysiicon Market (World News, 2016.) https:// eresearch.ﬁdelity.com/eresearch/markets_sectors/news/story.jhtml?storyid=201611240400PR _NEWS_USPR_____enUK201611224068&provider=PR_NEWS_&product=USPR____ &category=sectorNews&gic=453010. Accessed 3 March 2017 L. Bertrand, C.M Olsen, U.S. Patent 3,012,862, 1961 S. Bhusarapu, P. Gupta, Y. Huang, U.S. Patents 9,114,996, 2015 and 9,114,997, 2015 W.C. Breneman, U.S. Patent 4,676,967, 1987 W.C. Breneman, U.S. Patent 9,352,971, 2016 L. Cadoret, N. Reuge, S. Pannala, M. Syamlal, C. Coufort, B. Caussat, Surf. Coat. Technol. 201, 8919 (2007) B. Caussat, M. Hemati, J.P. Couderc, Chem. Eng. Sci. 50, 3625 (1995) K.H. Chung and J.C. Sturm, https://pdfs.Semanticscholar.org/2ff4/3f7680437746363 fap 33038725145 eee607 pdf, 2007 D.W. Clary, A.O. Wikman, U.S. Patent 5,260,538, 1993 W.O. Filtvedt, Production of Polysilicon from Silane Pyrolysis in a Fluidized bed, thesis, Telemark University College, 2013. Available from https://teora.hit.no/handle/2282/1453 W.O. Filtvedt, M. Javidi, A. Holt, M.C. Melaaen, E. Marstein, H. Tathgar, P.A. Ramachandran, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 94, 1890 (2010) W.O. Filtvedt, A. Holt, P.A. Ramachandran, M.C. Melaaen, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 107, 188 (2012) W.O. Filtvedt, T. Mongstad, A. Holt, M. Melaaen, H. Klette, Int. J. Chem. React. Eng. 11(1) (2013) R. Fu, T.L. James, M. Woodhouse, IEEE J Photovoltaics 5, 515 (2015) M.F Gautreaux, R.H. Allen, U.S. Patent 4,784,840, 1988 D. Geldart, Characterization of ﬂuidized powders, in Gas Fluidization Technology, ed. by D. Geldart (Wiley, Chichester, 1986) H. Gutschel, U.S. Patent 3,042,494, 1962 A.V. Hariharan, M. Chandra, K.P. Gupta, U.S. Patent 7,175,685, 2007 J.R. Howard, Fluidized Bed Technology: Principles and Applications (Adam Hilger, Bristol/New York, 1989), p. 30, p. 202 G. Hsu, R. Hogle, N. Rohtagi, A. Morrison, J. Electrochem. Soc. 131, 660 (1984) G. Hsu, N. Rohatgi, J. Houseman, AICHE J. 33(5), 784 (1987) N.W. Hwang, J. Cryst. Growth 205, 59 (1999) IHS, Technology: Fluidized Bed Reactor Technology Stakes its claim in solar Polysilicon Manufacturing. http://news.ihsmarkit.com/press-release/design-supply-chain-media/ﬂuidized- bed-reactor-technology-stakes-its-claim-solar-poly, 2014 S.K. Iya, U.S. Patent 4,684,513, 1987 S.K. Iya, U.S. Patent 4,818,496, 1989 L. Jianlong, C. Guanghui, Z. Pan, W. Weiwen, D. Jihai, Chin. J. Chem. Eng. 19, 747 (2011) D.K. Kerner, R.W. Davis, E.F. Moore, S.H. Ehrman, J. Cryst. Growth 247, 333 (2003) H.Y. Kim, K.K. Yoon, Y.K. Park, W.C. Choi, U.S. Patent 7,771,687, 2010 T. Kimura, T. Kojima, Journal de Physique IV Colloque, 1991, 02 (C2), pp. C2-103C2-110 M.S. Kulkarni, P. Gupta, B. Devulapalli, J. Ibrahim, V. Revankar, K. Foli, U.S. Patent 8,404,206, 2013 D. Kunii, O. Levenspiel, Fluidization Engineering, 2nd edn. (Butterworth-Heinemann, Newton, 1991), p. 35, p. 52, and p. 78 S. Lai, M.P. Dudukovic, P.A. Ramachandran, Chem. Eng. Sci. 41, 633 (1986) 4 Fluidized Bed Process with Silane 107 D. R. Lide (ed.), CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, 89th edn. (CRC Press, Boca Raton, 2008), pp. 12217 B. Mazumder, Silicon and Its Compounds (Science Publishers, Plymouth, 2000), p. 7 NETL, https://mﬁx.netl.doe.gov/ R.I Newman, W.E. Watson, U.S. Patent 3,370,938, 1968 E.W. Osborne, M.V Spangler, L.C. Allen, R.J Geertsen, P.E. Ege, W.J. Stupin, G. Zeininger, U.S. Patent 8,075,692, 2011 S. Pannala, M. Syamlal, T. Obrien, Computational Gas-Solid Flows and Reacting Systems (Engineering Science Reference, Hersey, New York, 2010) J.M. Parker, Int. J. Chem. React. Eng. 9(A40) (2011) J. Pina, V. Bacala, N.S. Schbib, P. Ege, H. Ignacio, I. Lasa, Int. J. Chem. React. Eng. 4, A9 (2006) REC, https://www.recsilicon.com/products/solar-grade-polysilicon. (2017) N. Reuge, L. Cadoret, B. Caussat, Chem. Eng. J. 148, 509 (2009) V. Revankar, S. Lohoti, U.S. Patent 8,657,958, 2014 F.L. Riley, J. Am. Ceram. Soc. 83, 245 (2000) C. Roselund, The slow grind of FBR polysilicon, (pv magazine, 2015). www.http:/www.bernreuter. com/ﬁleadmin/user_upload/library/Slow-grind-of-FBR-polysilicon-pv-magazine-9-2015.pdf. Accessed 2 Mar 2017 SEMI, http://ams.semi.org/ebusiness/standards/semistandard.aspx?volumeid=12, (see methods SEMI PV49-0613 2013 and SEMI PV 171012, 2012) M.V. Spangler, M.J. Miller, U.S. Patent 9,404,177, 2016 M.V Spangler, Glen Stucki, U.S. Patent 8,926,929, 2015 R. Steemann, J. Yong, O. Mjos, A. Song, Energy Procedia 15, 20 (2012) R.D. Toomy, Chem. Eng. Process. 48, 220 (1952) Wacker., https://www.wacker.com/cms/media/documents/investor-relations/cmd16/cmd16_polysilicon. pdf. 2016 S.P. Walch, C.E. Dateo, J. Phys. Chem. 105, 2015 (2001) D. Weidhaus, I. Crossmann, F. Schreieder, U.S. Patent Application 2005/0135986, 2005 G.M. Wyller, T.J. Preston, H. Klette, O. Nordseth, T.T. Mongstad, W.O. Filtvedt, E.S. Marstein, Energy Procedia 92, 904 (2016) Yang (ed.), Handbook of Fluidization and Fluid-Particle Systems (CRC Press/Taylor & Francis Group, Boca Raton, 2003), p. 261 G. Zhang, F. Quyang, Ind. Eng. Chem. Process. Des. Dev. 24, 430 (1985) 108 L. Jiang et al. Upgrade Metallurgical Grade Silicon 5 Wen-hui Ma, Ji-Jun Wu, Kui-xian Wei, and Yun Lei Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 110 Smelting of Metallurgical-Grade Silicon ....................................................... 110 Secondary Reﬁning of MG-Si .................................................................. 112 Boron Removal by Gas-Blowing Reﬁning .................................................. 112 Boron Removal by Slag Treatment ......................................................... 114 Acid Leaching Treatment ....................................................................... 116 Solvent Reﬁning ................................................................................. 116 Vacuum Treatment ............................................................................... 117 Theoretical Basis of Vacuum Reﬁning ...................................................... 117 Vacuum Reﬁning ............................................................................. 118 Experimental Measurements of the Volatilization Rate of Si ............................... 119 Plasma Reﬁning ................................................................................. 120 Electron Beam Treatment ....................................................................... 121 Puriﬁcation by Solidiﬁcation .................................................................... 123 Traditional Directional Solidiﬁcation Technology .......................................... 123 Conclusion ....................................................................................... 125 References ....................................................................................... 125 Abstract Producing upgraded metallurgical-grade silicon may be the most promising method to replace the modiﬁed Siemens process to produce solar-grade silicon, which has many advantages such as no pollution and low cost in the production process. The main process is described in detail, including smelting and second- ary reﬁning of metallurgical-grade silicon and acid leaching treatment. Other W.-h. Ma (*)  J.-J. Wu  K.-x. Wei  Y. Lei National Engineering Laboratory for Vacuum Metallurgy, Faculty of Materials and Metallurgical Engineering, Kunming University of Science and Technology, Kunming, Yunnan, China e-mail: mwhsilicon@126.com; dragon_wu213@126.com; kxwei2008@hotmail.com; leiyn2008@163.com  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_7 109 technologies also are introduced and discussed: solvent reﬁning, vacuum treat- ment, plasma reﬁning, and electron beam treatment; these technologies are used to reﬁne metallurgical-grade silicon. Puriﬁcation is also very important in the production process; a solidiﬁcation process is used in puriﬁcation to obtain highly pure silicon. Keywords Metallurgical-grade silicon  Impurity removal  Solar-grade silicon  Reﬁning  Puriﬁcation Introduction The production of solar cells has increased signiﬁcantly in response to a growing demand for clean energy worldwide. However, solar-grade silicon (SOG-Si) is expensive and the supply is limited. For this reason, many researchers have devel- oped successful processing methods to use metallurgy to produce SOG-Si, including reﬁning, removing impurities, and acid leaching treatment, which have their own advantages; these have been used to remove all kinds of impurities. Vacuum melting, plasma reﬁning, and electron beam treatment have also been used to reﬁne silicon (Si) and remove impurities. In addition, solidiﬁcation has been used to purify Si to obtain different segregation coefﬁcients between liquids and solids. The entire process and various methods to produce SOG-Si using metallurgical methods are discussed and described here. Smelting of Metallurgical-Grade Silicon Metallurgical-grade Si (MG-Si), with a typical purity higher than 98.5%, is produced in a submerged electric arc furnace at a temperature higher than 1,900 C. The electric furnace consists essentially of charge (silica, a carbona- ceous reducing agent) and a carbon/graphite electrode. The high-class silica lump with lumpiness of 10100 mm is mixed with a carbonaceous reducing agent such as petroleum coke, bitumite, carbocoal, wood chips, and/or charcoal and then charged into the furnace. The electrodes are submerged in raw materials and the Si is smelted. MG-Si is produced by the carbothermic reduction of silica according to the overall reaction: SiO2 þ 2C ¼ Si þ 2CO (1) In a practical electric furnace, the reduction of silica is very complicated. The raw materials (SiO2 and carbon), after being put into the furnace, move down continu- ously, away from the pre-reaction zone, and their temperature continually increases 110 W.-h. Ma et al. as they are heated by the ascending furnace gases. The gaseous SiO will be decomposed into Si and SiO2. 2SiO ¼ SiO2 þ Si (2) Most products are deposited in the pore of the reducing agent and some escape from the furnace. The raw materials continue to move down. The following reactions take place when the temperature reaches 1,820 C: SiO þ 2C ¼ SiC þ CO (3) SiO þ SiC ¼ 2Si þ CO (4) SiO2 þ C ¼ SiO þ CO (5) When the temperature rises again, other reactions occur: 2SiO2 þ SiC ¼ 3SiO þ CO (6) Below the electrodes, the reactions to produce Si include: SiO2 þ 2SiC ¼ 3Si þ CO (7) and 3SiO2 þ 2SiC ¼ Si þ 4SiO þ 2CO (8) In the process of sinking the furnace charge, reactions (5) and (6) take place in reverse: SiO þ 2CO ¼ SiO2 þ C (9) 3SiO þ 2C ¼ 2SiO2 þ SiC (10) At the same time, waste heat is recovered as energy. Figure 1 shows a schematic description of the MG-Si production process in an electric furnace. MG-Si contains 13% impurities, depending on the raw materials and the type of electrodes. Impurities in MG-Si come mainly from silica, the reducing agent, and the carbon electrode. Iron, aluminum, and calcium account for the largest numbers of impurities in MG-Si. Among the oxides in silica and in ash of the reducing agent, nearly 100% Fe2O3, 5055% Al2O3, 3540% CaO, and 30% MgO are reduced after smelting. A small amount of nonmetallic impurities (boron, phosphorus, carbon, etc.) enters the MG-Si melt (Schei et al. 1992). In general, MG-Si includes different amounts of impurities: 0.21% iron, 0.40.7% aluminum, 0.20.6% calcium, 0.10.02% titanium, 0.10.15% carbon, 80 ppmw boron, and 150 ppmw phosphorus. 5 Upgrade Metallurgical Grade Silicon 111 Secondary Refining of MG-Si Boron Removal by Gas-Blowing Refining During production, MG-Si melt is tapped into a ladle from the electric furnace for a secondary reﬁning treatment, which is similar to secondary reﬁning in steelmaking. Some oxidizing media, such as air and oxygen or synthetic slag (CaOSiO2, CaOAl2O3SiO2), are usually blown or added to the ladle for secondary reﬁning. Figure 2 shows the removal efﬁciencies of impurities (Wu et al. 2014a). Calcium and aluminum are reduced from 18400 ppmw to 320 ppmw and 124000 to 880 ppmw, respectively. Their removal efﬁciencies are both higher than 90%, which is enough to meet the requirements for the next reﬁning step. Boron is reduced from 35 to 18 ppmw; its removal efﬁciency is about 50%. However, removal efﬁciencies are lower than 17% for iron, copper, vanadium, and carbon. Phosphorus is reduced from 184 to 112 ppmw. Figure 3 shows the efﬁciency of boron removal using the different composi- tions of ArH2OO2 and reﬁning time in a direct current arc furnace. When the composition of H2OO2 is 1:1, the boron content is reduced from 18 to 2.0 ppmw; when the composition is changed into 2:1, it is reduced to 0.6 ppmw. ELECTRIC ENERGY FILTER CLEANED GAS CONSUMABLE ELECTRODES RAW MATERIAL CHARGE MATERIAL LIQUID METAL REFINING SOLIDIFICATION SILICON RECOVERED ENERGY SILICA - Rawmaterials: Quartz and coal - Technology - Electrodes - Power - Logistics - Capital - Environment Kilde: A. Schei et al. SIZING CRUSHING CRATER C SO2 Fig. 1 Production process of MG-Si smelting in an electric furnace 112 W.-h. Ma et al. Different compositions of the gases argon, H2, and H2O were blown into an induction furnace, as shown in Fig. 4, to remove boron under different reﬁning temperatures. At the range of 17231872 K, the removal efﬁciency of boron was better at a lower temperature. Boron could barely be removed from Si when blowing pure H2 gas; however, the removal efﬁciency was greatly improved with the addition of H2O to the H2 gas. The results indicate that boron removal was very different when blowing 3.2% compared with 7.4% H2OH2 at 1,500 C for 2 h. The latter had a better effect. The boron in Si could be reduced from 52 ppm to 3.4 and 0.7 ppm at 1,450 C and 1,500 C, respectively, using 3.2% H2OH2 gas-blowing reﬁning (Tang et al. 2012). Fig. 2 Removal efﬁciency of impure elements in MG-Si using O2 gas blowing Fig. 3 Effects of H2OO2 composition and reﬁning time on boron removal 5 Upgrade Metallurgical Grade Silicon 113 Boron Removal by Slag Treatment The reaction to remove boron from MG-Si using slag reﬁning containing SiO2 can be expressed as: B ½  þ 3=4SiO2 ¼ BO1:5 þ 3=4Si (11) Aluminum, calcium, titanium, boron, and phosphorus impurities in MG-Si can be oxidized and absorbed by a ﬂux of CaOSiO2 (Wu et al. 2014b). The reaction for boron to enter the slag through oxidation, with silica as the oxidizing agent, can be represented by the ionic reaction: B ½  þ 3=4O2 þ 3=2O2 ¼ BO3 3 (12) Oxygen ions are provided by basic oxides such as lime: CaO ¼ Ca2þ þ O2 (13) And the partial pressure of oxygen that results from the equilibrium between Si and SiO2 is expressed as: SiO2 ¼ Si þ O2 (14) The maximal value of the distribution coefﬁcient of boron (LB) reached 1.57 with slag comprising 60% CaO40% SiO2 (mass). The boron content in reﬁned silicon was reduced from 18 to 1.8 ppmw with a CaOSiO2 slagtoMG-Si ratio of 2.5 at 1,600 C for 3 h, and the removal efﬁciency of boron reached 90%. As shown in Fig. 5, the results of both calculations and experiments suggest that the distribution Fig. 4 Schematic drawing of a vacuum-induction furnace equipped with a gas purging unit 114 W.-h. Ma et al. coefﬁcient of boron is strongly affected by the basicity of slag. When using CaOSiO2 slag, LB varies from a low basicity of 0.83 to a high basicity of 1.46; it reaches a maximal value of 1.58 with a slag basicity of 0.78. The addition of K2CO3 to calcium silicate slag obviously plays an important role to the increase of LB, which reaches 2.08 using a high-basicity slag of 40% CaO40% SiO220% K2CO3 (Wu et al. 2016). A mixed gas (H2OO2) and a chloric CaCl2CaOSiO2 slag are combined to separated boron from MG-Si (Wu et al. 2017). As shown in Fig. 6, the efﬁciency of Fig. 5 Distribution coefﬁcient of boron (LB) with different basicities of calcium silicate slags Fig. 6 Boron removal using combined slagging and gas-blowing reﬁning 5 Upgrade Metallurgical Grade Silicon 115 boron removal was greatly improved by combining the slagging and gas-blowing reﬁning techniques. When 40% Ar60% O2 and 40% Ar60% H2O gases were combined with 42.5% CaO42.5% SiO215% CaCl2 slag and reﬁned at 1,823 K for 3 h, the boron concentration in reﬁned Si was reduced from 22 to approximately 2 ppmw. However, it was reduced to 0.75 ppmw when combining 40% Ar20% O240% H2O gas blowing with the 42.5% CaO42.5% SiO215% CaCl2 slag reﬁning for 3 h, at which point the efﬁciency of boron removal reached 96.6%. Acid Leaching Treatment Acid leaching treatment can purify Si because of the segregation of impurities between Si solid and liquid phases among grain boundaries of Si crystals. A smaller segregation coefﬁcient of an impurity occurs before the precipitate among the grain boundaries compared with those with a larger segregation coefﬁcient. The segrega- tion coefﬁcients of impurities at the melting point of Si are shown in section Puriﬁcation by Solidiﬁcation. Metallic impurities normally have smaller segrega- tion coefﬁcients than nonmetallic impurities. Therefore, acid leaching treatment can efﬁciently eliminate metallic impurities, whereas further work needs to be done to enhance the extraction of nonmetallic impurities. Because impurities precipitate among the boundaries of Si crystals, the bulk Si must be crushed and ground to a powder in order to make the acid solution completely touch the impurity-containing phases. If the powder size is not small enough, some of impurities will become entrapped in the Si particles; extraction of these impurities is not efﬁcient because of the poor contact between the acid solution and the impurities. Therefore, the size of Si powder is an important factor that inﬂuences the extraction of impurities. Other inﬂuential factors are the conditions of acid leaching, such as leaching time, lixiviant, leaching temperature, and stirring technology. An efﬁcient lixiviant can be chosen using thermodynamic EhpH dia- grams. A high leaching temperature, good stirring technology, and enough leaching time often improve the kinetic conditions of the leaching process. Solvent Refining Unlike other reﬁning methods, solvent reﬁning is a technology that can reﬁne MG-Si at temperatures below the melting point of Si. Low-temperature reﬁning is a typical advantage of this technology, indicating it consumes low amounts of energy. Solvent reﬁning includes some basic steps: (a) One or more elements are melted together with MG-Si to form a molten Si-rich solvent or alloy. (b) Si crystals with a high purity will be precipitated ﬁrst by lowering the temper- ature of the solvent, such as cooling the solvent in the heating zone or pulling the 116 W.-h. Ma et al. solvent from the heating zone. The Si crystals will gradually precipitate until the temperature reaches the eutectic point of the alloy. (c) After eliminating the eutectic phases that contain impurities by acid leaching, the high-purity Si can be collected. Solvent reﬁning works based on the segregation behaviors of impurities between liquid and solid phases. In step (b), the impurities enrich within the liquid phase because of their segregation behaviors, rather than stay in the precipitated Si. An ideal element that can be selected to form a solvent with Si should meet these requirements: (a) Its solubility in solid Si and its segregation coefﬁcient between the liquid and solid phases should be extremely low. (b) It must have a low cost and be environmental friendly. (c) It can form a solvent such that the yield of Si can achieve the economic purpose; that is, Si has high solubility in the solvent. (d) It can form a solvent that decreases the segregation coefﬁcients of impurities, especially boron and phosphorus. (e) Si is the only precipitated phase in the solidiﬁcation process. According to these basic requirements, many researchers have tried to use different solvents to reﬁne MG-Si; examples of solvent systems include SiAl, SiFe, SiSn, SiNa, SiCu, SiGa, and combinations thereof. Vacuum Treatment Theoretical Basis of Vacuum Refining Based on the different properties of elements available when vaporizing and con- densing, crude metal can be separated from impurities by vacuum distillation reﬁning. The difference in the vapor pressure of each metal at different temperatures is the basic principle of crude metal vacuum distillation. The relation between the saturated pressure and temperature is shown in Eq. 15 (Dai and Yang 2009; Zhang 1988): lg p ¼ AT1 þ Blg T þ CT þ D (15) The coefﬁcients A, B, C, and D for different substances can be obtained from Kubaschewski et al. (1985), Kubaschewski and Alcock (1979), Bharadwaj et al. (1990), Juneja et al. (1986), and Liang and Che (1993). Then, according to Eq. 15, the relation between saturated vapor pressure (p*, pascal) of impurities in the MG-Si and temperature (T, Kelvin) is obtained. The saturated vapor pressures of several typical impurities in MG-Si are shown in Fig. 7. We can see that the saturated vapor pressures of Si and of impurities in MG-Si 5 Upgrade Metallurgical Grade Silicon 117 both increase as the temperature increases. The saturated vapor pressures of impu- rities of phosphorous, calcium, and aluminum are higher than that of the Si (the main part), which means that these elements volatilize earlier than Si in the same condi- tion. So, the main part and the impurities can be segregated under a vacuum, in which impurities with a higher saturated vapor pressure volatilize, leaving impurities and Si with lower saturated vapor pressures. Vacuum Refining Vacuum Refining by Resistance Heating Research on vacuum evaporation reﬁning was conducted in a resistance heating vacuum furnace. The removal effects of phosphorus, aluminum, and calcium at 1,823 K were investigated by vacuum evaporation at 30, 60, 90, 120, and 150 min. The impure elements in the samples were analyzed by inductively coupled plasma atomic emission spectroscopy. With an increasing temperature, the amounts of phosphorus, aluminum, and calcium in the samples become lower. That is, the removal efﬁciency of impurities can be improved by increasing the volatilization temperature in the process of vacuum evaporation reﬁning for Fig. 7 Relation between the saturated vapor pressure of the pure component and temperature 118 W.-h. Ma et al. MG-Si, but this temperature increase also enhances the volatilization of the primary metal, leading to a more volatilization of the main part and a decrease in the metal recovered. Vacuum Induction Refining The induction device is the induction melting furnace part of a 10 t/a vacuum oxygen decarburization solidiﬁcation (VODS) type SOG-Si furnace, which is designed according to patented technology to prepare SOG-Si through metallurgy and is consigned processing. Because the induction melting temperature cannot be auto- matically controlled, the experimental temperature is measured by adjusting the induction melting power and using an infrared thermometer. The samples obtained after induction melting treatment were analyzed by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry. The impure element phosphorus can easily be reduced from 12 to below 1 ppmw, and the smallest amount (0.11 ppmw) can be achieved by induction- heating reﬁning treatment. This amount fully meets the requirement for phosphorus content in SOG-Si. Experimental Measurements of the Volatilization Rate of Si Based on Fig. 8, we found that the slope of the theoretical volatilization rate was invariable. On the other hand, the slope of the experimental volatilization rate decreases as evaporation time increases. This indicates that experimental values will be closer to the theoretical values when evaporation time is increased as a result of the formation of vaporliquid equilibrium in the vacuum furnace in the early stages of the experiment, which may favor Si evaporation. Vaporliquid equilibrium is generally established in a vacuum furnace when evaporation time is long. Because no effective technology is included in our experimental setup to detect when vaporliquid equilibrium forms, we cannot easily assess the impact of the process of achieving vaporliquid equilibrium on the volatilization rate of Si during the Evaporation 45 min Evaporation 30min Theoretical values 102 The volatilization rate of silicon (g  cm2  min1) 103 1720 1740 1760 1780 1800 T(K) 1820 1840 Evaporation 60 min Fig. 8 Comparison of the volatilization rate of Si based on theoretical and experimental data (Wei et al. 2011) 5 Upgrade Metallurgical Grade Silicon 119 experiment. The results and analysis show that a major discrepancy exists between the experimental and theoretical volatilization rates of Si. Three possible reasons are advanced to explain this discrepancy; that is, the vaporliquid equilibrium is destroyed by (1) carbon/graphite, (2) oxygen, or (3) the water-cooling system. Plasma Refining Similar to gas-blowing reﬁning, plasma reﬁning is a high-efﬁciency metallurgical method to remove impurities. Figure 9 displays the operating principle of plasma reﬁning to remove impurities. The reactive gases comprise O2, H2, and H2O molecules, which plasma gas then decomposes into O, H, OH, O+, and/or OH+ atoms or ions. Using plasma reﬁning with O2, H2, or H2O reactive gases, boron impurities in MG-Si change into gaseous borides such as BO, B2O, HBO, and BH2. A mixed reaction gas comprising O2 and H2 (or water vapor) was added to a high- temperature plasma ﬂame to volatilize impurities on the surface of the Si melt. Boron was volatilized mainly in the form of gaseous BOH. After reﬁning, the boron concentration in Si decreased from 15 to 2 ppmw. Fig. 9 Schematic diagram of the volatilization rate experiment 120 W.-h. Ma et al. Nakamura et al. (2004) blew plasmas containing 4.34.6 vol% H2 and 50.450.6 vol% H2O into MG-Si with boron content of 510 ppmw, as shown in Fig. 10. The boron content in reﬁned Si decreased to below 0.1 ppmw after reﬁning for 400 min, and the weight reached 300 kg. In addition, they found that the rate of boron removal was proportional to water vapor content, according to the reaction kinetics. Electron Beam Treatment Electron beam melting technology has the following characteristics: (1) It is maintained at a vacuum level of 102103 Pa using a water-cooled copper crucible or no crucible to avoid contamination from the outside. (2) It uses a high energy density (up to 103106 W/cm2), an electron beam spot diameter up to 107 cm, and a melting rate that can effectively remove volatile impure elements. (3) Melting power and speed can be adjusted individually, and control is easily automated, safe, and reliable. (4) The chemical composition of the melt can be precisely controlled to obtain highly pure rare and refractory metal materials and to meet certain performance requirements. (5) High-quality ingots can be prepared in different shapes, dimensions, and masses. (6) The requirements to achieve particular shapes, sizes, and qualities are lower. The morphologies of electron beammelted Si ingots are shown in Fig. 11. Tan et al. (2013) have done much work in Si puriﬁcation through electron beam melting, and they investigated the inﬂuence of beam power, reﬁning time, and solidiﬁcation mode on impurity removal efﬁciency. Phosphorus content was decreased steadily to less than 0.1  104 wt.% with laboratory-scale electron beam melting equipment. The removal efﬁciencies of aluminum and calcium are up to 98%, which can meet the requirements for SOG-Si. The results are shown in Fig. 12. Fig. 10 Time dependence of boron content for 300 kg/ch-scale experiments 5 Upgrade Metallurgical Grade Silicon 121 Fig. 11 Morphologies of electron beam-melted Si ingots: (a) surface, (b) bottom, (c) cross section 25 9kW 15kW 21kW 20 15 10 5 0 0 1k 2k 3k 4k Melting Time, t/s Content of Phosphorus, [P]/mass106 160 120 80 40 0 0 1k 2k 3k 4k Melting Time, t/s Content of Calcium, [Ca]/mass106 100 80 60 40 20 0 21kW 15kW 9kW 21kW 15kW 9kW 0 1k 2k 3k 4k Melting Time, t/s Content of Aluminium, [Al]/mass106 Fig. 12 Phosphorus, aluminum, and calcium contents as a function of time at different powers 122 W.-h. Ma et al. Purification by Solidification Traditional Directional Solidification Technology Segregation behaviors of impurities between solid and liquid Si are signiﬁcantly different because of their different solubilities in each phase. A segregation coefﬁ- cient is calculated as the concentration of an impurity in solid Si/the concentration of an impurity in the liquid phase. Therefore, a smaller segregation coefﬁcient indicates extraction of more of the impurity in the liquid phase, indicating impurities prefer to enrich in the liquid phase rather than stay in the solid puriﬁed Si. High-purity Si can be collected after the impurity-containing liquid phase is eliminated. The solubility of an impurity in solid Si is another important factor inﬂuencing the efﬁciency of Si reﬁning. To obtain high-purity Si, the solubility of an impurity in solid Si should be as small as possible. The segregation coefﬁcients of evaluated impurities are listed in Table 1 (Hu et al. 2013; Hopkins and Rohatgi 1986; Lei et al. 2016), and the solubilities of impurities in solid Si are shown in Fig. 13 (Tang et al. 2010). According to Table 1, metallic impurities have smaller segregation coefﬁcients than nonmetallic impurities, which is the main reason why nonmetallic impurities cannot be efﬁciently eliminated by solidiﬁcation, acid leaching treatment, solvent reﬁning, or other metallurgical technologies. Several solidiﬁcation methods exist, including common solidiﬁcation technology, directional solidiﬁcation technology, zone melting technology, and Czochralski technology. Table 1 Evaluated segregation coefficients of impure elements between solid and liquid silicon at the melting point of silicon (1,687 K) (Hopkins and Rohatgi 1986; Lei et al. 2016; Tang et al. 2010) Element Segregation coefﬁcient Element Segregation coefﬁcient Fe 6.4  106 Sb 2.3  102 Ti 2.0  106 Pb 2.0  103 Cr 1.1  105 Bi 7.0  104 Mn 1.3  105 Zr 1.6  108 Ni 1.3  104 W 1.7  108 Cu 8.0  104 Mo 4.5  108 Zn 1.0  105 Nb 4.4  107 Ag 1.7  105 Sn 3.2  102 Au 2.5  105 Ta 2.1  108 Ga 8.0  103 V 4.0  106 In 4.0  104 Pd 5.0  105 P 3.5  101 Co 2.0  105 B 8.0  101 O 5.0  101 Al 8.0  102 C 5.0  102 Hf 4.9  106 As 3.0  101 Mg 3.2  106 Ca 8.0  103 5 Upgrade Metallurgical Grade Silicon 123 For common solidiﬁcation technology, Si is ﬁrst melted above its melting point and then solidiﬁed with a cooling rate. Impurities precipitate among the grain boundaries of Si crystals. After grinding and acid leaching, the precipitated impuri- ties are eliminated. For directional solidiﬁcation technology, Si is ﬁrst melted in a heating zone and then solidiﬁed when the sample is gradually pulled from the heating zone vertically. For example, when the sample is pulled from the heating zone, Si ﬁrst solidiﬁes at the bottom of the sample and the upper end of the sample stays as a melted liquid until directional solidiﬁcation ﬁnishes. In this case, the impurities are enriched in the ﬁnal liquid melt (the top of the sample). After removing the top of sample, puriﬁed Si can be obtained. In addition, directional solidiﬁcation with electromagnetic force was proposed to separate Si crystals from Si-rich solvents. Si crystals can agglom- erate well at one end of the solvent, and they can be separated easily from the residual solvent by mechanical cutting and then puriﬁed by hydrometallurgical treatment. The mechanism of zone melting technology is similar to that of directional solidiﬁcation technology. The main difference is that a heating ring (normally induction coils) is used to melt only a small part of the sample. After moving the sample (or the heating ring) up (or down), the impurities enrich in the ﬁnal liquid phase because of their different segregation behaviors between solid and liquid Si. Czochralski technology is currently used to grow monocrystalline Si in industrial processes. When the seed is immersed into the liquid Si melt, Si crystals grow on the seed. After pulling the seed and the monocrystalline Si from the Si melt, the impurities stay in the Si melt and monocrystalline Si with an extremely high purity can be obtained. Fig. 13 Solubilities of impurities in solid silicon (Tang et al. 2010) 124 W.-h. Ma et al. Conclusion 1. Researchers have done much work using metallurgy because of its outstanding advantages such as low cost and low pollution. 2. Metallurgical Si production technology has been introduced, and impurities should be removed. Gas blowing reﬁning and slag treatment to remove purities have been discussed. 3. Acid leaching treatment is used to purify Si. It works on both nonmetallic and metallic impurities. 4. Solvent reﬁning and vacuum treatment have been investigated by many researchers because of their low cost and low pollution. 5. Plasma reﬁning is a high-efﬁciency metallurgical method to remove impurities. Some researchers also use electron treatment. 6. Puriﬁcation by solidiﬁcation is an efﬁcient process. Segregation behaviors of impurities are signiﬁcantly different in solid and liquid Si because of their different solubilities in the solid the liquid Si. References S.R. Bharadwaj, A.S. Kerkar, S.N. Tripathi, et al., J. Chem. Thermodyn. 22, 453461 (1990) Y. Dai, B. Yang (eds.), Nonferrous Metal Vacuum Metallurgy, 2nd edn. (Metallurgical Industry Press, Beijing, 2009) R.H. Hopkins, A. Rohatgi, Impurity effects in silicon for high efﬁciency solar cells. J. Cryst. Growth 75, 6779 (1986) L. Hu, Z. Wang, X. Gong, Z. Guo, H. Zhang, Puriﬁcation of metallurgical-grade silicon by SnSi reﬁning system with calcium addition. Sep. Purif. Technol. 118, 699703 (2013) J.M. Juneja, G.N.K. Iyengar, K.P. Abraham, J. Chem. Thermodyn. 18, 10251035 (1986) O. Kubaschewski, C.B. Alcock, Metallurgical Thermochemistry, 5th edn. (Pergamon Press, Oxford, 1979) O. Kubaschewski, C.B. Alcock, wrote. Z. Qiu, Y. Liang, X. Li, et al., trans. Metallurgical Thermochemistry (Metallurgical Industry Press, Beijing, 1985), pp. 486513. Y. Lei, W. Ma, L. Sun, J. Wu, Y. Dai, K. Morita, Removal of B from Si by Hf addition during AlSi solvent reﬁning process. Sci. Technol. Adv. Mater. 17, 1219 (2016) Y. Liang, Y. Che (eds.), Inorganic Thermodynamics Data Sheet (Northeastern University Press, Shenyang, 1993) N. Nakamura, H. Baba, Y. Sakaguchi, Y. Kato, Boron removal in molten silicon by a steam-added plasma melting method. Mater. Trans. 45(3), 858 (2004) A. Schei, H. Rong, A.G. Forwald, Impurity distribution in silicon (Silicon for Chemical Industry, Geiranger, 1992), pp. 1618 Y. Tan, X. Guo, S. Shi, W. Dong, D. Jiang, Study on the removal process of phosphorus from silicon by electron beam melting. Vacuum 93, 6570 (2013) K. Tang, E.J. Øvrelid, G. Tranell, M. Tangstad, Thermochemical and kinetic databases for the solar cell silicon materials, in The Twelfth International Ferroalloys Congress, Sustainable Future, Helsinki, 69 June 2010 K. Tang, S. Andersson, E. Nordstrand, M. Tangstad, Removal of boron in silicon by H2H2O gas mixtures. J. Miner. Met. Mater. Soc. 64(8), 952956 (2012) K. Wei, W. Ma, B. Yang, D. Liu, Y. Dai, K. Morita, Study on volatilization rate of silicon in multicrystalline silicon preparation from metallurgical grade silicon. Vacuum 85, 749754 (2011) 5 Upgrade Metallurgical Grade Silicon 125 J. Wu, Y. Li, W. Ma, K. Liu, K. Wei, K. Xie, B. Yang, Y. Dai, Impurities removal from metallurgical grade silicon using gas blowing reﬁning techniques. Silicon 6, 7985 (2014a) J. Wu, Y. Li, W. Ma, K. Wei, B. Yang, Y. Dai, Boron removal in purifying metallurgical grade silicon by CaOSiO2 slag reﬁning. Trans. Nonferrous Metals Soc. Chin. 24, 12311236 (2014b.) http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1003632614631836 J. Wu, F. Wang, W. Ma, Y. Lei, B. Yang, Thermodynamics and kinetics of boron removal from metallurgical grade silicon by addition of high basic potassium carbonate to calcium silicate. Metall. Mater. Trans. B 47B, 17961803 (2016.) https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/ s11663-016-0615-z J. Wu, Y. Zhou, W. Ma, M. Xu, B. Yang, Synergistic separation behavior of boron in metallurgical grade silicon using a combined slagging and gas blowing reﬁning technique. Metall. Mater. Trans. B 48(1), 2226 (2017.) https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11663-016-0860-1 S. Zhang (ed.), Vacuum Technology Physical Basis (Northeast Institute of Technology Press, Shenyang, 1988) 126 W.-h. Ma et al. Part II Crystalline Silicon Growth Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 6 Xuegong Yu and Deren Yang Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 130 Fundamentals of CZ Silicon Crystal Puller ..................................................... 131 Crystal Puller ................................................................................. 131 Pulling Procedure ............................................................................ 135 Dislocation-Free Growth .................................................................... 137 Thermal Control ............................................................................. 138 Melt Flow in Crucible ....................................................................... 140 Incorporation of Impurities ...................................................................... 142 Segregation Theory .......................................................................... 142 Dopant Distribution Inhomogeneity ......................................................... 144 Oxygen Impurity ............................................................................. 146 Light-Induced Degradation of CZ Silicon .................................................. 148 Oxygen Control .............................................................................. 150 Novel CZ Silicon Crystal Growth .............................................................. 151 Magnetic Field Assisted Growth ............................................................ 151 Continuous Growth .......................................................................... 153 Square Ingot Growth ......................................................................... 156 Germanium-Doped CZ Silicon Crystal Growth ................................................ 157 Germanium Doping Method ................................................................. 157 Germanium Property in Silicon ............................................................. 158 Suppression of Ge Doping on Thermal Donors ............................................ 160 Enhancement of Ge Doping on Silicon Mechanical Strength .............................. 161 Anti-irradiation Effect of Ge-Doped CZ Silicon Crystal ................................... 163 X. Yu (*) State Key Lab of Silicon Materials and School of Materials Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, Zhejiang, Hangzhou, China e-mail: yuxuegong@zju.edu.cn D. Yang State Key Laboratory of Silicon Materials and School of Materials Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China e-mail: mseyang@zju.edu.cn  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_12 129 LID Effect of Ge-Doped CZ Silicon Crystal ................................................ 166 Conclusion ....................................................................................... 169 References ....................................................................................... 170 Abstract Czochralski (CZ) silicon is widely used in the fabrication of high-efﬁciency solar cells in photovoltaic industry. It requires strict control of defects and impurities, which are harmful for the performances of solar cells. Therefore, the CZ silicon crystal growth aims at achieving defect-free single crystals for advanced solar cell wafers. Meanwhile, attention must be paid to the low cost of CZ silicon crystal growth. Therefore, it is necessary to develop novel crystal growth techniques suitable for practical application of photovoltaics. This chapter will review the fundamentals of CZ silicon and recent developments. The oxygen-related defects and control technologies are emphasized. Meanwhile, the novel crystal growth methods are introduced. The Ge doping in CZ silicon can not only improve the materials mechanical strength, but also suppress the generation of boronoxygen complexes. This will enable thinner solar cells at reduced cost and beneﬁt the fabrication of high efﬁciency solar cells with low light-induced degradation effects. Keywords Czochralski silicon  Crystal growth  Photovoltaic  Solar cell  Low cost  Defect  Light induced degradation Introduction The growth of silicon crystals from high-purity polycrystalline silicon (99.9999%) is a critical step for the fabrication of solar cells in photovoltaic industry. About 90% of the worlds solar cells in photovoltaic (PV) industry are currently fabricated using crystalline silicon. Various techniques have been devel- oped to grow photovoltaic silicon crystals. Among them, two techniques are dominant and meet the requirements of photovoltaic device technology. One is a casting method to produce multicrystalline (mc) silicon crystals, and the other is a Czochralski (CZ) method to produce single crystals. Compared to mc silicon, CZ silicon wafer has the advantages of low defect density and the well-textured surface with low reﬂectance, which is important for high performance solar cells. However, CZ silicon crystal growth is less productive than mc silicon crystal. The high cost of CZ silicon material causes a barrier for the worldwide application of solar cells (Watanabe et al. 1981). One strategy is to reduce the thickness of silicon wafers, which is strongly dependent on the mechanic strength of materials. Moreover, the round CZ silicon crystals have to be cut into pseudo-squares with round corners for the sake of solar modules, leading to not only the loss of materials but also the coverage loss of the ﬁnal module. More important, boron- doped p-type CZ silicon solar cells widely used in photovoltaics nowadays are unavoidably suffering from the serious light-induced degradation (LID) of 130 X. Yu and D. Yang efﬁciency under the sunlight due to boronoxygen defects, further decreasing the cost-effectiveness of this material. In this chapter, the major topics in the science and engineering of CZ silicon crystal growth technology are ﬁrst discussed, including crystal puller, hot ﬁeld, thermal control, melt ﬂow, and so on. Then, the impurity incorporation and novel CZ silicon crystal growth techniques are presented. The impurity incorporation is mainly concerning oxygen contamination, which cause the generation of electrically recombination active defects. The novel CZ techniques aim at the control of oxygen level and the low cost of crystal growth. Finally, it will focus on the crystal growth of germanium (Ge)-doped CZ silicon for impurity engineering. Fundamentals of CZ Silicon Crystal Puller Crystal Puller A typical CZ silicon crystal puller is shown in Fig. 1. It mainly consists of an air-tight, water-cooled growth chamber and a crystal harvesting chamber. An optional isolation gate valve is placed between the growth and harvesting chambers for the crystal transferring. The growth chamber is usually made of stainless steel. Fig. 1 A CZ silicon crystal puller 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 131 The most important component in the growth chamber is the hot ﬁeld, which includes a heater and a graphite cup. The graphite cup is used to support a quartz crucible that contains polysilicon charges. During crystal growth, the puller chamber is purged with an inert gas like argon or nitrogen with a reduced pressure. The purging gas ﬂows from the top to the bottom of the puller, which can effectively remove the evaporated SiO particles and CO gas from the melt surface. The graphite cup is put on a graphite pedestal which is rotatable. The seed used for the single crystal growth is held by a seed holder which is controlled to rotate in the opposition direction of the graphite pedestal rotation. The heater is made of molded graphite cylinders, which have a higher density and smoother surfaces. Slots are cut out of the cylinder to form a zigzag conductive path as shown in Fig. 2. The cross-section area of the conductive paths is usually kept constant in order to obtain a uniform radial temperature distribution. Arcing in the furnace using a RF coil heater can effectively be avoided by the highly conductive graphite. The typical voltage between two terminals of a heater is less than 100 volts (DC). The height to the diameter ratio of a heater is an important parameter that affects the temperature proﬁle in the furnace, which is usually in the range of 11.4. A small ratio can cause a large value of temperature gradient along the crystal growth direction. Changing the cross-section area of the conductive paths can also be used to modify the temperature gradient at some positions in the crucible. The graphite cup usually consists of two parts. One is a shallow and thick graphite dish at the bottom and the other is a graphite cylinder on the graphite dish. The thick bottom is for the purpose of thermal insulation, which can insure a positive temper- ature gradient for the solidiﬁcation of melt from the bottom. It is known that the volume of silicon will expand approximately 9% by solidiﬁcation. After crystal growth, the melt silicon remaining in the crucible will expand in volume during solidiﬁcation and therefore can make the graphite cup break. In order to avoid this phenomenon, the graphite cylinder on the graphite dish has a slit in the sidewall to compensate the expanding of silicon phase change and crucible. Fig. 2 A graphite heater used in a CZ silicon crystal puller 132 X. Yu and D. Yang However, it should be noted that the graphite usually contains certain concentra- tion of iron in ppm, which can diffuse into the crystal and decrease the minority carrier lifetime. The iron concentration in the crystal is strongly dependent on the iron content in the hot ﬁeld graphite. To reduce the iron contamination from the graphite, the technology of coating protective layers can be used, including an initial protective layer of silicon carbide and a second protective layer of silicon by the chemical vapor deposition process. The coating layers can cause a barrier for the iron diffusion by sealing the graphite surface. Meanwhile, the silicon coating layer can also work as a gettering center for iron and form stable iron silicide phases. Experimental study has been performed to evaluate the impact of graphite furnace parts on radial impurity distributions for the crystals. When silicon carbide-coated graphite is used, the minority carrier lifetime of CZ silicon crystal gets signiﬁcantly improved, as a result of the silicon carbide ﬁlm acting as an effective seal against iron diffusion from the graphite parts. Further experiments have evaluated the iron contamination of silicon wafers in different graphite heaters. It is found that the wafers exposed to silicon carbide-coated graphite have higher iron concentrations than to the graphite coated with silicon and silicon carbide (OMara et al. 2007). The crucible used for CZ silicon crystal growth is made of high purity fused quartz, as shown in Fig. 3. The quartz usually softens at 1,670 C and fuses at 1,800 C. Two types of quartz crucibles are commercially used nowadays. One is transparent and bubble-free, made of completely fused quartz. The other is opaque, made of partially fused quartz. However, the inner surfaces of the opaque crucibles are fused by ﬁre-polishing and are also smooth. Both types of crucibles are made of semiconductor-grade quartz and have no signiﬁcant difference on impurity contents in crystals. The crucible bottom proﬁle and its aspect ratio can affect the convection ﬂow pattern of the melt. The crucibles with semi-ﬂat bottom can produce a better Fig. 3 A quartz crucible for CZ silicon crystal growth 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 133 radial resistivity in the crystals. During crystal growth at high temperatures, the devitriﬁcation of silica forms crystobalite, which is often detached from the crucible surface and cause structural defects in the crystals. Therefore, a dense barium silicate-coated layer on the crucible inner walls is necessary since barium oxide is a good devitriﬁcation promoter that helps forming a uniform dissolution layer on the crucible inner surface during crystal growth. Nevertheless, the CZ silicon crystal grown in these crucibles unavoidably contains a substantial amount of interstitial oxygen impurity since oxygen is inherently present in the crucible material. Recently, silicon nitride-based crucibles are attractive because of the absence of oxygen. For such crucibles, the pressed Si3N4 or carbon crucibles are used as sub- strates, and meanwhile, a pure Si3N4 ﬁlm without cracks is deposited on the substrates by chemical vapor deposition. However, it is found that silicon nitride performs well as a crucible material during a short time since silicon melt does not wet the silicon nitride crucible. It is attributed to the protective silicon dioxide ﬁlms on the surface of the nitride. Late on, the silicon melt can penetrate into the silicon nitride matrix and ﬁnally leads to the decomposition of the crucible. The decomposition of silicon nitride follows the reaction: Si3N4 = 3 Si + 2 N2. Experimental results have shown that the CZ silicon crystals grown from silicon nitride crucibles contain the oxygen concentration below 2  1016 atoms/cm3. However, a nitrogen concentration of 4  1015 atoms/cm3in the CZ silicon is found (Watanabe et al. 1981). Aluminum oxide is another choice for crucible material. However, the dissolution of the aluminum oxide material releases aluminum impurities into the silicon melt, which can be incorporated into the silicon crystal by segregation effect. Since aluminum is a p-type dopant material for silicon, the incorporation of aluminum impurities may lead to unexpected deviation of dopant concentration in the as-grown silicon. During silicon growth, silicon monoxide (SiO) will be formed due to the reaction of melt silicon and oxygen dissolved from the crucible into the melt. It is very important to remove SiO gas and particles from the chamber since too much deposition of SiO particles on cooler surfaces, such as the chamber wall, crucible inner wall, and ingot surface, could cause serious problems when the particles fall down to the melt. The dislocations or grain boundaries will generate and make structure integrity lost if the particles get into the growing crystal. By applying a cone structure component on the crucible, the argon ﬂow rate and its path can be tailed to resolve this problem. Both molybdenum (Mo) and graphite with coating have been considered for the cone material. Figure 4 shows the photographs of both cones. With the cone, the argon ﬂow consumption could be signiﬁcantly reduced. The major reason is that the ﬂow space between the cone and the melt is small and the argon ﬂow across the melt surface becomes faster. Accordingly, the removal of SiO from the melt surface is more effective. With the cone, near the melt surface, no ﬂow circulation is found, which is believed to be useful for reducing the falling-back of SiO particles from the upper cooler surfaces. Nevertheless, the upper part of the cone still has signiﬁcant SiO deposition. With the top-wall insulation or a composite cone, the deposition is reduced and its position is higher due to the increase of cone temperature. Besides the argon consumption, the original argon ﬂow path has to run 134 X. Yu and D. Yang through the graphite heater and SiO reacts with graphite forming silicon carbide. This deteriorates the heater and shortens heaters lifetime. The same is true for graphic susceptor. By redirecting argon to the side insulation, it is found that the heater lifetime, as well as that of the graphite susceptor, could be signiﬁcantly elongated. The heater lifetime can be increased to about 4,500 h from the original lifetime of 3,000 h. The lifetime of the graphite crucible (susceptor) is increased to 1,500 h, which is almost double that of the original one (880 h). As argon is redirected to the side wall, the deposition of SiO on the heater is signiﬁcantly reduced after crystal growth, and the grown crystal surface is very shining, without any surface oxidation. If the cone is not used, the colorful oxidation rings generally appear on the crystal surface. Furthermore, with the cone, the melt leftover in the crucible could be signiﬁcantly reduced because silicon remains molten near the end of the growth easily due to the less radiation heat loss. As a result, the wastage of material is reduced signiﬁcantly. Pulling Procedure The basic process of CZ silicon crystal pulling procedure is schematically shown in Fig. 5. Polycrystalline silicon raw materials are melted in the crucible under the inert gas protection. The inert gas has to ﬂow permanently downwards through the pulling chamber to carry off the reaction by-products from melt. After the polycrystalline silicon is completely molten, the temperature of the melt will continue to rise for a short time due to the fusion heat transmission. In order to suppress the thermal shocking, the heater power is reduced to about the value which is needed for the crystal growth shortly before completely melting. For crystal growth, the whole furnace should be in thermal equi- librium. There is no further temperature variation at any point of thefurnace. In this case, the supply and release of heat are in equilibrium. The heating can be controlled by measuring the temperature at a suitable position by a thermal couple. The empirical method is to dip the seed and observe its melting behavior. After the silicon melt is thermally stable, the seed is dipped into the melt. When the seed starts to melt, the temperature is tuned down slightly. The seed is then Fig. 4 Photographs of the molybdenum (a) and the graphite (b) cones 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 135 withdrawn from the melt so that it begins to grow but no increase in its diameter. By applying the Dash necking technology, the dislocations in the seed can be elimi- nated. For the dislocation elimination, the neck diameter needs to be reduced to 25 mm, and meanwhile the growth velocity is usually raised to 6 mm/min. After the neck reach a few centimeters in length by combining growth velocity and crystal diameter, the crystal becomes dislocation-free. Afterwards, the pulling rate of crystal needs to be reduced and the diameter of the crystal can be enlarged until it reaches the desired value. The transition part between the seed end and the silicon cylinder has a shape of cone, which is usually called the seed cone. Once the desired diameter is about to achieve, the pulling rate of crystal needs to be increased rapidly. In this case, the crystal can start to grow with the required diameter. Usually, the growth of the crystal cylindrical part is automatically controlled. The crystal radius at the solid/ melt interface is the most important. The usual way is optical capturing of the meniscus shape, typically by detecting the bright meniscus ring. Optical imaging of the bright meniscus ring, which results from reﬂections of light emitted by the heaters, is an important measuring technique for CZ silicon crystal growth. It should be noted that the measured object is the diameter of the meniscus at a certain height, not the crystal diameter at the three-phase boundary. When the crystal radius begins to decrease the meniscus height will increase ﬁrst. This means that the measured diameter of the bright meniscus ring will increase, which might result in incorrect reactions of the controller if it is not adapted to this behavior. The pulling rate of crystal growth should be reduced towards the bottom end of the crystal with the melt surface lowering, which is caused by the increase of heat radiation from the crucible wall. Meanwhile, the removal of the heat of crystallization is more difﬁcult and the crystal growth needs more time. After the crystal cylinder is ﬁnished, the crystal diameter has to be reduced gradually to a small size and an end-cone is formed. For this purpose, the pulling rate is raised and the crystal diameter decreases. When the diameter is small enough, the crystal can be separated from the melt without dislocation generation. Noted that the withdrawal of the crystal from the melt surface cannot be very fast, otherwise the thermal shocking would cause plastic deformation in the lower part of the crystal. After ﬁnishing the growth of whole crystal, some silicon melt has to be remained in the crucible. This is because the high surface tension of liquid silicon makes it difﬁcult to empty the crucible completely. The melt tends to diminish this surface and therefore ﬂows away from the crystal. Fig. 5 A schematic of a CZ silicon crystal growth 136 X. Yu and D. Yang Additionally, the melt residues contain high concentration of impurities, which will be harmful for the crystal quality. Dislocation-Free Growth The seeds used for the growth of CZ silicon crystals are seldom dislocation-free. The thermal shocking dislocations have to be generated when the seed is dipped into the melt. Meanwhile, the strain that occurs as a result of different cooling rates between the inner and outer parts of the crystal is also one cause for dislocation generation. These dislocations will be propagated at high temperatures, or move into the grown crystal, which is more pronounced in the large diameter crystals. During the dislocation movement, the dislocations are not only movable in their glide planes, but also can spread into adjacent glide planes by cross slip, multiplication processes, and climb. The dislocations in silicon crystals with diamond structure are preferable to propagate in a {111} plane. When a silicon crystal is pulled in a [100] direction, all {111} planes are oblique to the pull axis. Therefore, all the dislocations with Burgers vectors of (a/2) [110] will grow out and terminate at the crystal surface provided that the crystal diameter is reduced to a small value and no new dislocations are generated at the interface. This principle is ﬁrst utilized by Dash to eliminate all the dislocations during the seeding process, which are called Dash necking tech- nology. Nowadays, the Dash necking technology has been widely used in the crystal growth of CZ silicon. Figure 6 shows the basic process of Dash necking in the practical application. One need ﬁrst melt back the seed to remove surface damages and to create a clean substrate surface. Then, a higher pull rates up to 6 mm/min is needed for the growth of the neck with a small diameter. This can allow the dislocations to emerge and terminate at the ingot surface and let the dislocations propagate behind the growth interface so that they will be eliminated by pairing or bending to form complete loops. Meanwhile, the temperature gradients for the neck growth must be controlled to keep the facet growing in the ﬂat interface, which can provide thermal requirements for the two-dimensional growth with less thermal stress. Fig. 6 (a) Seed melting back in the molten silicon, (b) fast pulling to reduce the crystal diameter to implement the Dash process 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 137 Generally, the dislocation generation is difﬁcult to occur during the CZ silicon crystal growth if the growth parameters are stable. However, if a ﬁrst dislocation is formed, it will multiply rapidly and move into the crystal. This will result in that the whole cross section at this position and a considerable part of the grown crystal are dislocated. The length of dislocated part is approximately equal to the diameter of CZ silicon crystal. It is important to recognize whether or not the dislocations are generated for the growing crystal, which can save the cost of crystal growth. The growth of dislocation-free crystal requires the existence of singular or faceted surfaces at the interface for two-dimensional nucleation. In a [100] CZ silicon crystal, four side-facets that are 90 apart are present in the interface. The facets form four ridges that are uninterrupted from the top to the side surface of the ingot, as shown by Fig. 7. The side facets in a [100] CZ silicon crystal are usually the {111} planes, which are 54.5 from the melt surface. The facets protrude beyond the circular circumference of the crystal. Thus, these four facets can be clearly identiﬁed in the meniscus during the crystal growth and the reﬂect light that irradiates from the heater through the crucible with a greater intensity than the nonfaceted regions. If one or more facets are not present at the interface, the dislocations must be generated in the CZ silicon crystal. Thermal Control The crystal growth of CZ silicon is a phase transition from liquid to solid with the decrease of melt temperature, which corresponds to a decrease in entropy and Gibbs free energy. At the silicon melting temperature, the liquid and solid phases can co-exist in equilibrium, which have the same Gibbs free energies. When the melt is cooled below the melting point for crystal growth, the variation in Gibbs free energy is directly proportional to the undercooling (ΔT). Therefore, the undercooling can be considered as the only driving force for phase transition and determine the crystal growth rate. Fig. 7 A sketch of side facets in a [100] CZ silicon crystal without dislocations 138 X. Yu and D. Yang For the practical CZ silicon crystal growth, thermal insulation is usually applied at the bottom of the crucible and outside surfaces of the heater, which causes vertical and radial temperature gradients in the melt. The lowest temperature part of the melt is located at the center of the melt surface. For crystal growth, the melt temperature needs to be reduced so that the center of the melt surface reaches the melting point. At this moment, the seed can be dipped into the melt and initiate the crystal pulling by further lowering the melt temperature. Once the crystallization occurs on the seed, it can be gradually withdrawn from the melt and grows as an ingot. The crystalliza- tion of molten silicon is accompanied by generating the latent heat of solidiﬁcation. The latent heat needs to be removed because it can suppress the further solidiﬁcation of molten silicon. The latent heat is usually dissipated into the crystal by thermal conduction and then released to the ambient through thermal radiation and convection. Under equilibrium state, the heat input to the whole system should be equal to the heat output, as shown by Fig. 8. The heat input consists of heat supply by the heater (QH) and latent heat (QL) of solidiﬁcation. The heat output consists of heat loss from the melt (QM) and heat loss from the crystal (Qc). Heat loss of the melt occurs primarily from its free surface to the ambient gas and from the melt/crystal interface to the crystal. The latent heat generated at the interface mainly dissipates to the crystal by conduction. The heat transfer behavior through the crystal/melt interface is a critical parameter to determine the crystal growth rate and crystal perfection, which can be expressed as, σs dT dx   s  σL dT dx   L ¼ QLv A (1) where σs and σL are the thermal conductivity of silicon crystal and melt, respectively, v is the crystal pull rate in the unit of mass per unit time, A is the area of the solidliquid interface, and dT dx   s and dT dx   L are the vertical temperature gradient in the solid and liquid silicon, respectively. The Eq. (1) suggests that the pull rate of CZ silicon crystal is determined by the two variables dT dx   s and dT dx   L. Note that the value of dT dx   L cannot be negative, or else the solidiﬁcation could occur below the solidmelt interface and interrupt the growth of a single crystal. When dT dx   L is Fig. 8 A heat ﬂow pattern in the furnace during crystal pulling 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 139 equal to zero, the growth rate of CZ silicon reaches a maximum value, which is directly proportional to dT dx   s. Theoretically, the value of dT dx   s can be evaluated by the following differential equation (Runyan 1965): d2T dx2 ¼ BT4 (2) where B ¼ 2σre σsR . Here e is the thermal emissivity, σr the radiation constant, σs the conduction constant, and R the radius of the crystal. The ratio of radiation to conduction heat loss (σr σs ) is referred as the emission power of the ingot and is a constant for a given material. The Eq. (2) can be solved under the boundary conditions in which one end of the crystal is at the melting point and the other end is at zero, as expressed below, dT dx   s ¼ CB 1 2T 5 2m (3) where T 5 2m is the melt temperature of the crystal and C is a constant. It can be seen that the magnitude of dT dx   s depends only upon the emission power of the ingot. If assuming dT dx   L ¼ 0, the maximum growth rate can be calculated by Vmax ¼ CA QL 2σsσreT5 m R  1 2 (4) The interface shape can be qualitatively predicted by considering whether there is any deviation from the heat balance at the interface. When the heat dissipation term σs dT dx   s   is greater than the receiving term σL dT dx   L þ QLv A   in the Eq. (1), the interface shape will become convex toward the melt. The interface shape will become concave if the heat dissipation term is smaller than the receiving term. When the crystal pull rate and axial temperature gradient in the melt are constant, the rate of heat receiving will be constant. However, the rate of heat dissipation will be progressively reduced as the crystal length increases. Therefore, the interface shape will change during the course of the crystal growth process. Melt Flow in Crucible The convection in the silicon melt can be classiﬁed into two categories. One is related to temperature gradients, and the other is related to the movements of crystal and crucible. The silicon melt ﬂow is barely visible because of the metallic character of the melt (nontransparent, low emissivity). To make such ﬂow visible, a melt of transparent CaF2 with the same melting point as silicon is sometimes used. Due to 140 X. Yu and D. Yang the temperature differences in the melt, the emission of light occurs at distinctly different intensities and thus the ﬂow pattern can be easily seen. The large temperature differences lead to considerable differences in the density of the silicon melt. Due to the low viscosity of the silicon melt, the buoyant force causes strong convection currents develop, as shown in Fig. 9a. Meanwhile, since the surface tension is associated with melt temperature, it will cause the Marangoni convection or the thermocapillary convection, as shown in Fig. 9b. The basic ﬂow pattern is determined by the crucible geometry, melt height, and thermal boundary conditions. The driving force for the melt ﬂowing can be represented by Grash of number (Gr) (Carruthers et al. 1977), Gr ¼ gβΔTmL3=vk (5) where g is the gravity acceleration, β is the melt thermal expansion coefﬁcient, ΔTm the temperature difference in the melt over a speciﬁc length (L), and vk the kinematic viscosity of the silicon melt. The thermal convection of the melt is suppressed by decreasing the value of Gr. In the CZ silicon crystal growth process, heat is supplied to the crucible laterally by the heater, and the temperature difference between the periphery and the center regions of the melt (ΔTm/p) becomes larger than the difference between the surface and bottom of the melt. Thus, a large-diameter crucible will cause a strong thermal convection according to the dependence of Gr on L in Eq. (5). During the crystal growth, the forced convection will be caused by crystal pulling, crystal rotation, and crucible rotation, as shown in Fig. 9ce. The crystal rotation plays like a pump, which makes the melt move upward and radially outward near the surface. The crucible rotation brings about melt convection from the crucible wall toward the center, which can reduce the thermal asymmetry and decrease the thickness of the growth interface diffusion boundary layer. The degree of melt convention can be expressed by Reynolds number (Re), Re ¼ ωR2=vk (6) Fig. 9 Patterns of melt convection in the crucible during CZ silicon crystal growth 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 141 where R is the crystal radius. The thermal convection is dominant in the melt for a low value, while the forced convection becomes dominant for a high value. The critical ratio for the melt ﬂow changing from thermal convection dominance to forced convection dominance is on the order of ten. Here, it should be mentioned that the melt convections can accelerate temperature variations in the melt, which usually causes the re-melting and super cooling at the growth interface, and therefore might introduce crystal disorder and inhomogeneous impurity distribution. In practical CZ crystal growth, the convections caused by different reasons are mixed with each other, and the melt ﬂow becomes more complex. With the crystal growing, the melt level and the length of the grown crystal are changed, which signiﬁcantly affects the melt ﬂow. For a deep melt, the forced convection caused by crystal rotation affects only the upper region of the melt in the crucible and the rest is controlled by thermal convection. For a shallow melt, the forced convection affects the whole melt in the crucible, and the vertical ﬂow extends from the crucible bottom to the melt surface. Incorporation of Impurities Generally speaking, impurities in silicon crystal can be classiﬁed as two categories: dopants and contaminants. Dopants are intentionally incorporated to modulate the resistivity of silicon crystal, while contaminants are unintentionally incorporated. The incorporation of impurities into silicon crystal during growth is mainly deter- mined by segregation effect. As a result, during silicon crystal growth, impurities are mainly segregated along the axial direction, which can be described by the normal freezing equation. Segregation Theory A true equilibrium system means that impurity distributions in both melt and crystal are uniform, without concentration gradients in each phase. The impurity segrega- tion effect in CZ silicon can be deﬁned by the impurity concentration ratio of the solid and melt silicon. It can be described by the equilibrium segregation coefﬁcient, keq, as keq ¼ CS CL (7) where Cs is the impurity concentration in the crystal silicon at the crystal/melt interface and CL the impurity concentration in the melt silicon. The impurity concentrations in the solid and melt silicon can be obtained by the binary phase diagrams of impurity-silicon systems. Table 1 shows the equilibrium segregation coefﬁcients keq of various impurities in silicon (Hull 1999). Note that among all the impurities, oxygen is the unique element which has a segregation coefﬁcient of 142 X. Yu and D. Yang larger than 1.0. Furthermore, our recent work has clariﬁed that the segregation coefﬁcient of germanium in silicon should be 0.56 (Wang et al. 2011), instead of 0.33 which was generally accepted. According to the phase diagram, the equilibrium segregation of impurities must be dependent on their solubility in silicon. However, the impurity solubility is strongly inﬂuenced by their atom sizes. With an increase of impurity atom sizes, their solubility in silicon usually decreases. Therefore, the large impurity atoms are generally difﬁcult to incorporate into silicon crystal, causing small equilibrium segregation coefﬁcients. In the practical CZ silicon crystal growth, the melt convection should also be considered for the impurity segregation effect. Usually, an effective segregation coefﬁcient (keff) is used to deﬁne the practical segregation behavior of impurities during silicon crystal growth. It is assumed that there is a boundary layer with the thickness of δ at the crystal/melt interface within which the impurities transport by diffusion, and meanwhile the impurity concentration in the melt beyond this bound- ary layer is uniform due to the convection. The effective segregation coefﬁcient can be written as keff ¼ 1 1 þ 1 keq  1   exp  vδ D   (8) The value of keff depends strongly on δ. In practice, δ is difﬁcult to estimate, which depends on the convection strength in the melt silicon. This means that there is no simple way to predict keff. It can be noticed that for δ = 0, keff = keq and for δ = 1, keff = 1. From the Eq. (8), it can also be noted that with an increase of crystal growth rate, the value of keff increases. Figure 10 shows the effective segregation coefﬁcients of different impurities as a function of crystal growth rate. Note that the effective segregation coefﬁcients always tend towards one with an increase of crystal growth rate. In the practical crystal growth of CZ silicon, the growth rate is usually less than 1 mm/min, so the effective segregation coefﬁcients of impurities are close to the equilibrium one, which can be seen in Fig. 10. This allows us to often predict the impurity distribution in a silicon crystal using the equilibrium segregation coefﬁcient according to the Eq. (8). Table 1 Equilibrium segregation coefficients of main impurities in silicon B 0.8 O 1.25 Fe 8  106 Al 0.002 C 0.07 Ni 8  106 Ga 0.008 N 0.0007 Au 2.5  105 In 0.0004 Sn 0.016 Zn 0.001 P 0.35 Cu 0.0004 Mn 1  105 As 0.8 Cd 1  106 Li 0.01 Sb 0.023 Ti 3.6  104 Ag 1  106 Ge 0.56 Cr 1.1  105 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 143 If assuming that the impurity concentration in the melt is uniform throughout, the local impurity concentration in the crystal can be given by CS = keffCL. The sum of impurities in the crystal and in the melt should keep constant, which can be written as, ðg 0 CSdx þ 1  g ð ÞCL ¼ C0 (9) where C0 is the start concentration of impurity in the melt silicon as deﬁned above and g the solidiﬁed fraction. Considering CS = kCL and CL = C0 at g = 0, the Eq. (9) can be solved to be, Cs ¼ keff C0 1  g ð Þkeff 1 (10) This expression is so-called normal freezing equation describing the distribu- tion of impurity concentration along the axial direction of silicon crystal. Dopant Distribution Inhomogeneity Figure 11 shows the distribution of impurities with different k along the axial direction of silicon crystal. For keff  1, the solidiﬁed crystal part contains less of impurity. This will cause more and more impurity remaining in the melt, so the impurity concentration in the silicon melt increases with crystal growth proceeding. For keff  1, the solidiﬁed crystal part contains more impurity and the impurity concentration in the melt will reduce, which decreases with crystal growth proceed- ing. It should be noticed that when the value of g is closing to one, the impurity concentrations in the crystal and melt both go to inﬁnity for keff  1, and they go to 0 2 4 6 8 104 103 102 101 100 P B Ga Al In keff v (mm/min) Fig. 10 Effective impurity segregation coefﬁcients in silicon as a function of crystal growth rate 144 X. Yu and D. Yang zero for keff  1. For all the dopants, the value of keff is smaller than one. The experimentally obtained results for boron-doping generally ﬁt the calculated ones well, while in the phosphorus-doping case, the measured resistivity is higher than the calculated ones due partially to the evaporation of phosphorus during the crystal growth process. It can be understood that the segregation phenomenon of dopants causes a low production yield of silicon crystal that meets the resistivity tolerance required by solar cell producers. This problem becomes even more serious for crystal growth using a dopant with a smaller segregation coefﬁcient. Dopant compensation technology can be used to modulate the resistivity distri- bution along the crystal axial direction. For instance, the resistivity in the tail part of gallium-doped CZ silicon crystal can be effectively enhanced by phosphorus codoping. Experimental results have clariﬁed that both majority and minority carrier mobility in CZ silicon are reduced due to the Ga and P compensation. However, the reduction of carrier mobility is not as severe as expected by Klaassens model (Chen et al. 2011). The infrared absorption spectra for the compensated CZ samples show that the Ga- and P-related bands signiﬁcantly get broadened. A portion of P atoms are possibly trapped by Ga atoms to form the GaP pairs, resulting in the reduction of carrier scattering centers. The solar cells based on the compensated silicon have comparable efﬁciencies with the reference silicon solar cells, implying that the Ga and P compensation in the level of 1017/cm3 has no problem for its photovoltaic application (Xiao et al. 2012). In the CZ crystal growth processes, the changes of the growth parameters like growth rate and the diffusion boundary layer thickness can result in variations of the effective segregation coefﬁcient keff. This gives rise to microscopic impurity distri- bution inhomogeneities at the solid/liquid interface. As a result, the impurity stria- tions can be found by preferential chemical etching and X-ray topography. The impurity striation usually shows long-range periodicity. The major causes of stria- tions are temperature ﬂuctuations near the crystalmelt interface induced by unstable thermal convection in the melt and crystal rotation in an asymmetric thermal 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 0.01 0.1 1 0.01 0.05 0.1 0.5 0.9 k=1.5 Impurity con. in crystal Solidified fraction Fig. 11 Distribution of impurities with different k along the axial direction of silicon crystal (δ = 0.8 mm) 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 145 environment. The higher thermal gradients and the more pronounced thermal con- vection are observed in melts with higher melting points. Therefore, the extent of thermal asymmetry is great and re-melting is common during rotation and pulling of a silicon crystal because of the high melting point of silicon. With high thermal asymmetry in a crystal growth system, the microscopic growth rate will assume negative values with each rotation cycle, which causes more or less partial re-melting. Consequently, rotational striations are caused by localized regions of decreased microscopic growth rate, which result in a decreased concentration for impurities with an equilibrium segregation coefﬁcient k0  1. Accordingly, the periodicity drs of rotational striations is given by v/ω. Figure 12 schematically illustrates a CZ silicon crystal cross section containing a curved crystalmelt interface, which results in inhomogeneities on a slice surface. As each planar wafer is sliced, it contains different portions of several curved striations, which are referred to as swirl. Radial impurity concentration gradients are known to affect the local electrical properties of solar cells. Therefore, it is important to minimize radial ﬂuctuations in dopant concentration for high performance solar cells. Oxygen Impurity Oxygen is one of the main impurities in silicon crystals for solar cells, which originates from the contamination of silica crucibles. During silicon crystal growth, the melt will interact with silica crucibles to form SiO. Most of SiO will come to the melt surface to evaporate as gas and only a small portion of SiO remains in the melt, which ﬁnally are segregated into silicon crystal. The concentrations of oxygen in CZ silicon are about 1018/cm3. They generally stay at the interstitial sites to form covalent bonds with two silicon atoms and therefore are electrically neutral. How- ever, the interstitial oxygen in silicon can form various microdefects, giving detri- mental inﬂuence on the performance of solar cells. The diffusion rate of oxygen in Fig. 12 The formation of impurity striations in a CZ silicon crystal 146 X. Yu and D. Yang silicon is determined by its existence forms. An oxygen dimer diffuses much more rapidly than an interstitial oxygen (Oi). Oxygen atoms can form thermal donors (TDs) by annealing CZ silicon in the temperature range 300500 C (Capper et al. 1977). The generation of thermal donors will result in that the resistivity of n-type CZ silicon samples decreases, while the resistivity of p-type samples increases. In a more serious case, the p-type silicon which is the basic material for silicon solar cells will be transformed into n-type. Obviously, a high concentration of thermal donors deﬁnitely affects the electrical performance of solar cells. The most effective tem- perature for the formation of thermal donors is 450 C (Ruiz and Pollack 1978), and an annealing at 650 C for 30 min can remove grown-in thermal donors formed during crystal growth. The experiments have veriﬁed that the generation rate of thermal donors in the beginning is proportional to the oxygen concentrations to the fourth power and their maximum concentration is proportional to the oxygen concentration to the third power (Londos et al. 1993). Furthermore, the existence of other impurities can signiﬁcantly affect their formation, e.g., their formation is suppressed by nitrogen and carbon, but is enhanced by hydrogen. Oxygen in silicon can also induce another kind of donors, so-called new donors, whose formation temperature is in the range of 550850 C, but their formation needs a relatively long time, above 10 h (Gaworzewski and Schmalz 1983). For the crystal growth of silicon used for solar cells, the 550850 C period of its thermal history is much short than 10 h, so new donors cannot have enough time to form. Therefore, the new donor effect has never been seriously considered in photovoltaic industry. Since oxygen exists as super-saturation states in silicon crystal, some interstitial oxygen atoms can form precipitates in a wide temperature range while silicon is annealed. In general, oxygen precipitates consist of amorphous or crystalline SiOx (x  2) with a volume V which is 1.25 times larger than the silicon atomic volume in the lattice. Accordingly, the process of oxygen precipitation is accompanied with the emission of considerable self-interstitial atoms, forming extended defects such as dislocation loops or stacking faults. For the silicon crystal used for solar cells, the formation of grown-in oxygen precipitates during crystal growth is very important, due to the thermal history. It can cause different behaviors of subsequent oxygen precipitation for the wafers cut from the different crystals with equal initial oxygen concentrations and subjected to the same heat treatments. The thermal history is generally understood as the in situ annealing silicon crystals after solidiﬁcation. On the other hand, carbon is often found as an impurity in silicon crystal used for solar cells in amounts varying with the growth techniques. In photovoltaic CZ silicon, the carbon concentrations are in general 1017 cm3. The carbon atoms in crystalline silicon usually occupy the substitutional sites, as labeled Cs. It can easily form CO complexes with oxygen, which can become the heterogeneous nucleation sites for oxygen precipitates and promote their formation. Experiments have clariﬁed that carbon in silicon can enhance oxygen precipitation during both crystal growth and following heat treatments. The electrical properties of solar cell devices are strongly inﬂuenced by the presence of oxygen precipitates in crystalline silicon. They can increase the current 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 147 in reverse-biased pn junctions and therefore reduce open-circuit voltage of solar cells (Chakravarti et al. 1982). The leakage current could be related to oxygen precipitates themselves or their induced dislocations and stacking faults. Further- more, the formation of oxygen precipitates within the bulk of silicon wafers can affect both the recombination and the generation lifetimes since they can cause deep energy levels in band gap and become the recombination centers for minority carriers (Vanhellemont et al. 1995). Hwang and Schroder (1986) studied the recombination properties of oxygen-precipitated silicon and found that once interstitial oxygen precipitated in silicon bulk, the minority carrier recombination lifetime reduced dramatically, and meanwhile, the degree of lifetime degradation was more pro- nounced in p-type silicon than in n-type silicon. They believed that the recombination at oxygen precipitates took place through their interface states. Moreover, the existence of positive ﬁxed charges in oxygen precipitates will also help the lifetime degradation in p-type silicon. Experiments have clariﬁed that a high concentration of initial oxygen will not help the improvement of solar cell efﬁciency due to oxygen precipitation during device thermal recycles. The reduction of cell out-put power and efﬁciency along with its short-circuit current, ﬁll factor, and open- circuit voltage could take place with an increase of oxygen precipitates, see Fig. 13 (Chen et al. 2011). Light-Induced Degradation of CZ Silicon P-type boron-doped CZ silicon solar cells are suffering a light-induced-degradation (LID) in efﬁciency up to 12% absolutely, due to a CZ-speciﬁc defect formation. These defects are readily to form once silicon crystal simultaneously contains the dopant B and the inevitable impurity O incorporated by dissolving of silica crucibles. The complexes can form in the case of excess carrier injection under light illumina- tion (Schmidt et al. 1997) or application of forward bias (Hashigami et al. 2002) and can be fully annealed out at elevated temperatures in dark. However, the recovery process is reversible and the degradation will take place once again under illumina- tion. The generation of BO complexes consists of a fast- and a slow-forming process (Dhamrin and Saitoh 2003), corresponding to activation energies of about 0.2 and 0.4 eV, respectively. The recovery at elevated temperatures in dark is a thermal activation process with an activation energy of 1.3 eV (Schmidt and Bothe 2004). Advanced carrier-lifetime spectroscopic studies have revealed that the slow-forming defect causes a deep level at Ec0.41 eV with capture cross-section ratio σn/σp of 10 and a shallow level at Ec0.15 eV with uncertain σn/σp value, while the fast- forming defect is also a deep center with energy level lying between Ec0.35 and Ec0.85 eV and with a much larger σn/σp of 100 (Rein and Glunz 2003). Glunz et al. ﬁrstly reported that the saturated concentration of BO complexes (Nt *) is proportional to the B concentration (NB) in exclusively B-doped Si (Glunz et al. 1998), but later it was clariﬁed to be dependent on the hole concentration ( p0) in B and P compensated Si (Macdonald et al. 2009). However, a recent result reported by Forster et al. reconﬁrmed that the proportionality of Nt * is related to 148 X. Yu and D. Yang NB in a special B and Ga co-doped silicon crystal, instead of the p0 (Monkhorst and Pack 1976), indicating that the relation between Nt * and NB or p0 is still controver- sial. Meanwhile, studies in the three cases above all have shown that the generation rate constants (Rgen) of BO complexes exhibit a dependence on p0 2, instead of p0  NB. Moreover, it has been clariﬁed that the value of Nt * is precisely proportional to the square of Oi concentration ([Oi]2) (Bosomworth et al. 1970), suggesting that the oxygen dimers (O2i) are important components of the BO complexes. Schmidt and Bothe (2004) and Palmer et al. (2007) (proposed a BsO2i model as a good explanation of LID behaviors in exclusively B-doped silicon). In this model, the randomly distributed O2i diffuse quickly by the assistance of excess carriers towards Bs atoms to form recombination centers (Voronkov and Falster 2010). This model will naturally lead to a relation Rgen / p0  NB since the reaction probability increases with the NB, which is not in accordance with the experimental result that the Rgen actually depends on the p0 2. Moreover, Voronkov and Falster (2010) put forward a BiO2i model in which the positively charged interstitial boron atoms (Bi) are assumed to be captured by the O2i to form latent centers in as-grown silicon and then the LID occurs via the transformation of latent centers into recombination centers. However, this model cannot account for the 36 34 32 30 630 600 570 540 80 78 76 74 18 16 14 12 0h reference Eff.(%) FF (%) Voc (mv) Jsc (mA/cm2) 2h 4h 8h 16h Fig. 13 Characteristic parameters of the solar cells from the reference sample and the samples subjected to preannealing for different durations at 750 C followed by 1,050 C/16 h annealing which contains different oxygen precipitate concentrations (Reprinted with pending permission, Chen et al. 2011) 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 149 occurrence of LID phenomenon in n-type compensated Si which seems to be in the same nature with the case in p-type silicon. Recently, a new hybrid model that combines the advantages of previous two models is proposed. The latent centers are ﬁrst formed by the Bs atoms, instead of Bi atoms, capturing O2i, and then transform into the recombination centers (Bosomworth et al. 1970). More impor- tantly, the combination of temperature and illumination with hydrogen passivation can permanently deactivate BO complexes, which is named as regeneration process. The distinguish between thermal annealing and regeneration process is dominantly due to the different electronic properties of varied hydrogen charged species passivating BO complexes. Replacing boron by other III group dopants (Al, Ga, In) can effectively avoid the BO defect generation during CZ silicon crystal growth. However, Ga has a small segregation efﬁcient in silicon, which will reduce the effective length of crystal utilization for the solar cell fabrication. The Al dopant can also form the AlO complexes with oxygen and reduce the minority carrier lifetime. It is found that the open-circuit voltages (Uoc), short-circuit currents (Isc), and photo-electrical conver- sion efﬁciency of the Al-containing solar cells decrease with the increase of Al concentrations because of Al-related deep level recombination centers. The average absolute efﬁciency of Al-doped silicon solar cells is 0.34% lower than that of Ga- doped-only cells, even though Al-doped silicon solar cells show no light-induced efﬁciency degradation (Yuan et al. 2016). But the Al-doped silicon solar cells are comparable at the ﬁnal state to that of normal B-doped silicon solar cells. The evaporation of indium is rather severe during the CZ silicon crystal growth, which makes the accurate control of desired resistivity in the crystal difﬁcult. With an increase of doping concentrations, the electrical activity of indium dopants in silicon is found to become smaller. Moreover, the In solubility in silicon is very small. Beyond a critical doping concentration, the cellular growth of indium-doped CZ silicon crystal generally occurs (Yu et al. 2012). Oxygen Control The total oxygen atoms incorporated into a crystal through the crystalmelt interface are balanced by the oxygen dissolved into the melt through silica crucible dissolution and the oxygen evaporated from the melt free surface. Therefore, the oxygen incorporation into a growing silicon crystal involves three diffusion boundary layers and three interface areas: cruciblemelt, meltambient, and crystalmelt. The thick- ness of boundary layers depends on the melt convection ﬂows, while the interface areas are determined by the melt charge weight, size, and shape of the crucible and crystal diameter. Under these circumstances, the ratio of the cruciblemelt interface area to the free melt surface area is the primary factor that determines the oxygen concentration incorporated into CZ silicon. Since the large silica crucibles used in current CZ growth system are of approximately cylindrical shape, the cruciblemelt interface area constantly decreases during growth as the melt volume decreases, while the free melt surface area remains unchanged because the crystal diameter is constant over most of the growth. As a result, the oxygen dissolved into the melt 150 X. Yu and D. Yang through silica crucible dissolution decreases, but the oxygen evaporated from the melt free surface remains constant during growth. This phenomenon, together with the segregation coefﬁcient of oxygen, which is larger than one, leads to a gradual decrease in the oxygen concentration toward the tail end of a CZ crystal. Therefore, in order to obtain an axially uniform distribution of oxygen, the ratio of oxygen from crucible dissolution and the evaporated oxygen must be kept constant by controlling silicon melt ﬂows, usually by controlling crystal/crucible rotation rates. If the ratio of the cruciblemelt interface area to the free melt surface area can be maintained constant during crystal growth, a more uniform axial oxygen distribution will be obtained. This has been realized in the crystal growth using a crucible with truncated cone. However, this method cannot meet the requirement of high produc- tion throughput. Figure 14 shows the method of double crucible CZ silicon crystal growth (Shimura and Kimura 1981). A smaller silica crucible is submerged in the melt held by a larger crucible. This method enables the ratio to remain constant and in turn may grow a silicon crystal with a uniform axial oxygen distribution at a desired concentration. However, this method has not been realized yet because of its complex operating mechanism and expensive cost. More practical solutions to control oxygen concentration are the continuous CZ crystal growth or magnetic ﬁeld assisted crystal growth technique. Novel CZ Silicon Crystal Growth Magnetic Field Assisted Growth The electrical conductivity of silicon increases with the temperatures. The conduc- tivity of silicon increases to 12,300 ohml cm1 when it transforms into a molten state at its melting temperature. This number is within the same range of conductivity Fig. 14 Double-crucible CZ silicon crystal growth 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 151 values for many metals. Electrically, the molten silicon can be considered as a metal. Since the molten silicon ﬂows in the crucible due to the thermal-driven convection, the application of a magnetic ﬁeld into the silicon melt can cause a force that retards its ﬂow (i.e., Lenz law). An increase in the melt viscosity brings about suppression of the thermal convection and results in a decrease in temperature ﬂuctuations at the growth interface. Silicon crystal growth by the magnetic-ﬁeld applied CZ (MCZ) method was reported for the ﬁrst time in 1980s (Hoshi et al. 1980). Various types of magnetic ﬁeld conﬁgurations have been developed. The direction of magnetic ﬁeld can be perpendicular (horizontal or transverse) or parallel (vertical or axial) to the growth axis, which are referred to as HMCZ and VMCZ, respectively (Shimura 1989). Figure 15a, b shows the magnetic ﬂux lines for VMCZ and HMCZ cases. A vertical magnetic ﬁeld can be applied to the melt, by surrounding the growth chamber with a solenoid coil, and is much easier and less costly than a horizontal magnetic ﬁeld, which requires heavy electromagnets. Moreover, a magnetic ﬁeld parallel to the crystal growth axis offers the advantage that the axial symmetry of the conﬁguration is not disturbed, thus minimizing azimuthal variations in the crystal. From a practical point of view, the HMCZ method seems to be more successful than the VMCZ in growing high-quality silicon crystal with both an axial and radial uniformity of oxygen at a desired level. By applying a horizontal magnetic ﬁeld larger than a critical value, the surface vibration of silicon melt can be eliminated and the temperature ﬂuctuations in a silicon melt close to the surface are be suppressed (Ohwa et al. 1986). Temperature ﬂuctuations of about 12 C usually appear in the melt at zero magnetic ﬁeld, and as the ﬁeld increases, the ﬂuctuations can be decreased to less than 0.1 C. This is attributed to the reduced vibration of the melt surface due to the suppression of thermal convection. Since a magnetic ﬁeld suppresses thermal convection, the temperature depth proﬁle in the melt is signiﬁ- cantly affected by applying a magnetic ﬁeld. It has been known that the horizontal and vertical magnetic ﬁelds inﬂuence temperature proﬁles differently. The radial temperature gradient and the average melt temperature increase with application of a vertical ﬁeld, while they decrease with a horizontal magnetic ﬁeld. It has been observed that HMCZ silicon can be grown at a rate about twice the usual rate at zero magnetic ﬁeld, which is attributed to the larger temperature gradients in a growing crystal and smaller temperature gradients in the melt. The value of Fig. 15 Magnet ﬂux lines for (a) HMCZ, (b) VMCZ, and (c) CMCZ cases 152 X. Yu and D. Yang HMCZ silicon lies in its high quality and controlled oxygen concentration over a wide range. Experimental results have suggested that a horizontal magnetic ﬁeld is effective in reducing growth striations, particularly nonrotational striations. The oxygen concentration in silicon can be controlled in the range of 525 ppma by HMCZ method (Hoshi et al. 1985). CZ silicon crystal growth in the presence of an axially symmetric cusp mag- netic ﬁeld was reported for the ﬁrst time by Hirata and Hoshikawa (1989). The free surface of the melt is centered between two superconducting coils. In this way, the oxygen concentration was successfully controlled from 1.0  1018 to 2.0  1017 atoms/cm3, while keeping the crystal rotation rate at 30 rpm and crucible rotation rate at 10 rpm. Both the oxygen and dopant concentrations were homogenized by the presence of the magnetic ﬁeld. The controllability of oxygen concentration is due to the advantageous characteristics of the cusp magnetic ﬁeld to realize localized control of thermal convection at the meltcrucible interface, independent of that at the melt free surface. Good crystal homogeneity results because there is no need to change the crystal and crucible rotations adequately to control the oxygen concentration, in contrast to the previ- ous use of a transverse or vertical magnetic ﬁeld in which extreme changes in the crucible or crystal rotation rate are required. The MCZ technology can achieve the possibility of a high pulling rate and easy control of oxygen transfer, but it has some disadvantages, such as an inconvenient apparatus and its limitation on process variability. Continuous Growth Several schemes have been proposed to make the CZ growth process continuous and keep the silicon melt height constant by continuously recharging the melt externally. In such processes, the buoyancy effects can be reduced signiﬁcantly by maintaining a shallow layer of the melt region. By keeping the melt height ﬁxed, many kinds of inhomogeneities, unsteady kinetics, and instabilities can be suppressed. The oxygen impurity will also be decreased, since the wetted surface area will remain at a constant location. By continuously charging the melt, the crystal quality can be tightly controlled; the dopants can be added continuously to the desired concentra- tion levels. The conventional CZ crystal growth has the following pitfalls: (a) It consumes one quartz crucible per run since the crucible cracks during cooling off the furnace for crystal harvesting, (b) it produces crystals with a large difference in doping concentration between the seed and tang ends of ingots, and (c) it requires a long machine idle time to dismantle and set-up of furnace for each crystal growth run. These pitfalls can be reduced or eliminated if the crystal growth is converted to a semi-continuous or continuous process. These new processes are particularly appeal- ing to the photovoltaic industry. It requires low cost silicon wafers for the fabrication of terrestrial solar cells. The semi-continuous process can use a conventional CZ puller. However, a gate valve is required between the growth and harvesting 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 153 chambers. Figure 16 schematically shows the operational procedure for multiple CZ silicon crystal growth. The growth of the ﬁrst ingot by this process is identical to that by the batch process. After the grown ingot is separated from the melt and raised to the harvest chamber, the melt should be kept molten and the gate valve is closed. The crystal is then removed from the puller and is replaced with a polysilicon charge. After a few minutes of purging, the gate valve can be open and the re-charged polysilicon is loaded into the crucible. After the recharging of the crucible with the polysilicon, the growth of the second ingot can be initiated. The process can continue to alternate growth and recharging for several times from a single crucible without cooling the furnace. Another recharge system was developed which transforms standard CZ growth into a semi-continuous process. Now when the charge is depleted, the crucible can be reﬁlled in situ as the grown ingot is being removed from the furnace. The continuous growth process of CZ silicon crystal has many advantages, such as signiﬁcant cost reduction, increased yield, increased throughput, reduced energy consumption, improved process capability, reduced material han- dling requirements, and reduced labor. The recharge system also enables the use of granular silicon, which requires less than 30% of the energy required when manufacturing silicon-starting materials. Several methods have been developed for the recharging of the polysilicon. Lane and Kachare used a long polysilicon rod which was about a one-half section of the U-shaped polysilicon rod harvested from a Siemens reactor (Lane and Kachare 1980). The polysilicon rod is attached to the recharging mechanism which they are added to the puller. The recharging mechanism was incorporated with a weighting device so that the amount of each recharging from this rod could be controlled. Helda et al. (1985) used a charge container to hold the preweighed polysilicon cylinders. The dopant can be placed between two poly cylinders for Fig. 16 Operation outline of multiple CZ silicon crystal growth 154 X. Yu and D. Yang addition into the melt. The bottom of the container consists of heat deformable support members. At low temperatures, the support members rigidly hold the polysilicon cylinders in the container. When the container is lowered to about 12 inches above the melt, the heat of the furnace and the weight of the polysilicon force the support member to deform. This opens the bottom of the container and allows the polysilicon to descend into the crucible. During the melting of the polysilicon, the container is gradually withdrawn from the furnace and removed from the puller. One concern about the recharging technique is increase of impu- rity concentration in the melts with the number of recharging. The impurity concentrations can be calculated by the repeated application of Eq. (9). At the beginning of the nth pull, the concentration of impurity in the melt C ½ n L can be expressed as C ½ n L ¼ C ½ 0Pn1 þ C ½ 0g Pn2 þ Pn3 þ . . . þ 1   ¼ C ½ 0 Pn1 þ g Pn1  1   = P  1 ð Þ  (11) where P ¼ 1  g ð Þk0. If k0  1, then P  1 and Eq. (9) can be approximated by, C ½ n L ¼ C ½ 0 1 þ ng 1  g ð Þ ½  (12) Thus, this impurity buildup in the residual melt may limit multiple growth of high-quality CZ crystals. Continuous Czochralski growth of silicon crystals has been developed by Lorenzini et al. (1977). The puller that they used is schematically shown in Fig. 17. This continuous crystal puller consists of two separated furnaces connected by a continuous liquid feed quartz tube. One furnace is for crystal pulling and the other for the melting of polysilicon. The silicon melt is transferred by siphon action. The crucible in the growth chamber contains a quartz bafﬂe which dampens the melt vibration caused by the melt feeding. The melt is fed at such a rate that a constant melt level in the growth chamber is maintained. One advantage of this method is the uniform impurity distribution in the axial direction of the grown crystals. Drawbacks Fig. 17 Continuous liquid- seed CZ silicon growth furnace 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 155 of the continuous growth process are the complexities in equipment and processing. The major process problems are the transfer of the melt from one chamber to another and the control of equality between the feed and pull rates. A continuous solid feed system is shown in Fig. 18. This system consists basically of a hopper for storing the polysilicon raw materials and a vibratory feeder that transfers polysilicon chunks to the crucible. In the crucible that contains the silicon melt, a quartz bafﬂe may be required in order to prevent melt turbulence, caused by feeding solid chunks, around the growth interface. Square Ingot Growth Two approaches have been used to grow square silicon ingots from a CZ silicon puller. One approach is to enhance the formation of natural crystal habits. This requires a melt with an extremely good radial symmetry and stable temperatures. Under these conditions, the fast growth portions (or directions) of the ingot will not be melted back during the crystal rotation and the ingot will maintain a natural crystal habit. Kuroda et al. (1980) have demonstrated the growth of [100] square ingots. Continuous seed and crucible rotations both at 10 rpm were applied in opposite directions. The temperature ﬂuctuation at a given point was kept below 22 C. They have found that a square ingot was obtained when the temperature variations along a circular contour in the melt were less than 2 C and that a circular ingot was grown when the variations were 1015 C. The square ingots exhibited such a crystal habit that the diagonals of the square were along l00 directions and four edges of the square were perpendicular to 110. They have been able to maintain square cross-sections throughout the length of the ingots. Resistivity measurements on the wafers showed that the iso-resistivity contours were parallel to the edges of the wafers. Another approach is to shape the temperature proﬁle of the melt into a square conﬁguration. Liaw (1980) used a thermal insulation plate suspended above the melt surface. The gap between the melt and the plate was approximately 2 cm or less. The Fig. 18 Continuous solid- feed CZ silicon growth furnace 156 X. Yu and D. Yang center of the plate was cut in a square opening. A single crystal seed was dipped into the center of melt surface through this opening. During the crown portion of the crystal growth, a high supercooling was applied to the melt. The high supercooling forces the crystal to grow faster in 110 direction than in l00. Thus, the crystal crown will grow into a square with diagonals in 110 and edges in l00. Once the size of the crystal crown was approaching that of the opening, the crystal rotation was paused in such a way that the four edges of the crystal crown were parallel to the four sides of the opening. Then the crystal was pulled with a discontinuous rotation during the growth of main crystal body. Each rotation applied a 90 turn of the crystal. The purpose of pause rotation was to keep the ingot growing straight since the temperature of the melt was not perfectly symmetrical with respect to the pull axis. The time interval between each rotation was determined by the symmetry of the melt. The poorer symmetry in the melt, the shorter the pause time was needed between each rotation and the less square would be in the ingot. Figure 19 shows the cross-section of square ingots grown by this technique. Germanium-Doped CZ Silicon Crystal Growth Germanium Doping Method The doping of Ge in silicon is based on the addition of either high purity Ge raw material or the high purity SiGe alloy. High purity Ge-containing dopants are very easy to fabricate, and they are not required to have uniform and small size. Fig. 19 The cross-section of square silicon ingots 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 157 Ge-containing solid source cannot be powder-like because Ge or SiGe alloy is very easily oxidized. According to the SiGe binary phase diagram, Ge has unlimited solubility in silicon melt and a melting point lower than Si. In this sense, if high purity Ge is applied as the doping source, it will completely melt when silicon raw materials are all solid, and after the complete transformation from solid silicon to molten Si, Ge can completely dissolve in silicon solvent, where there will be few small un-molten Ge particles that may cause imperfection of silicon lattices. As for SiGe, the melting mechanism is the same as for pure Ge so that it should play the same role in the crystal growth process of Ge particle-doped CZ (GCZ) silicon. Germanium Property in Silicon Ge, as one of the isovalent elements with silicon, usually occupies substitutional sites in the silicon lattice. Due to its larger radius, Ge can cause a volume expansion (ΔV/VSi) of 4%. It is completely miscible with silicon to form GeSi alloy with any ratio. Since Ge atoms form bonds with silicon atoms in the lattice, they can cause an absorption band of 710 cm1 in the infrared absorption spectrum at room temper- ature (Niu et al. 2004). The Ge concentrations in CZ silicon can be calculated by the following formula, Ge ½  ¼ k  1020αmaxW1=2 =cm3   (13) where k = 1.211 is the conversion factor, αmax the absorption coefﬁcient, and W1/2 the band width of half maximum (BWHM). The segregation of Ge in silicon has been investigated for many years, but the results are not consistent because of different calculating methods. Trumbore ﬁrstly reported that the segregation coefﬁcient of Ge is 0.33 (Thurmond et al. 1956), obtained from crystal pulling experiments and an analysis of the GeSi phase diagram. However, the evaluation of Ge concentrations in the silicon melt was difﬁcult in their experiment, which could cause a big error in the value of the segregation coefﬁcient. Later on, Rea et al. acquired an effective segregation coef- ﬁcient of 0.68 by designing an experiment to avoid this error (Rea et al. 1987). Zhang et al. further clariﬁed that the effective segregation coefﬁcient of Ge in silicon is 0.69 and the equilibrium segregation coefﬁcient is 0.63 (Zhang et al. 1996). The Ge equilibrium segregation coefﬁcient has been modiﬁed into 0.62 by Niu et al. (2004). Recently the research group in Zhejiang University has grown a series of GCZ silicon crystals with the Ge concentrations ranging from 1016 to 1020/cm3. Based on both the experimental results and theoretical calculations, they obtained an effective segregation coefﬁcient of 0.56 for the Ge in silicon, and the equilibrium segregation coefﬁcient should be 0.5 (Wang et al. 2011). Nevertheless, even though the accurate segregation coefﬁcient of Ge is still controversial, it is no doubt that this value must be smaller than 1.0. Thus, the Ge concentration increases along the CZ silicon crystal axis from seed-end to tail-end. 158 X. Yu and D. Yang The Ge diffusion in silicon was ﬁrst investigated by radioactive tracer experi- ments, in which the isotope 71Ge with a half-life of 11 days was utilized. Petrov et al. (1957) acquired the diffusion coefﬁcient of Ge in the temperature range of 1,1501,350 C as follows: D ¼ 6:26  105exp  5:28eV kT   cm2=s   (14) However, Mcvay and Ducharme (1973) reported a different result by the same method as shown below, D ¼ 1:54  103exp  4:7  0:2eV kT   cm2=s   (15) By combining the SIMS measurements and the ﬁtting of the Ge diffusion proﬁles with a complementary error function, Ogino et al. obtained the Ge diffusion coefﬁ- cient as follows (Ogino et al. 1982): D ¼ 7:55  103exp  5:08eV kT   cm2=s   (16) Later on, Pichler (2004) claimed that the Ge diffusion coefﬁcient in silicon should be expressed as, D ¼ 1:72  103exp  4:830eV kT   cm2=s   (17) Hettich and Mehrer (1978) have investigated the behaviors of Ge diffusion in an extended temperature range. They reported a non-Arrhenius behavior of Ge diffu- sivity with a kink at the temperature of 1,050 C. Therefore, the characteristics of Ge diffusion in silicon could be separated into regimes, i.e., a high-temperature regime (1,1001,300 C) with the activation energy of 5.3 eVand a low-temperature regime (8501,000 C) with the signiﬁcantly lower activation energy of 4.1 eV. This kink point has been attributed to the evolution in the mechanism of Ge diffusion at different temperature ranges. The impurity diffusion in silicon is generally based on either interstitial or vacancy mechanisms. The temperature dependence of Ge diffusion in silicon is related to a change from an interstitial mechanism at high temperatures to a vacancy mechanism at low temperatures. Fahey et al. (1989) investigated the effect of vacancy and interstitial injection on the Ge diffusion in silicon. They estimated that under the 1,050 C equilibrium conditions, 3040% Ge atoms diffuse by an interstitial-assisted mechanism and the other 6070% by a vacancy mechanism if assuming vacancy-interstitial interchange to take place by a kick-out reaction. 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 159 Suppression of Ge Doping on Thermal Donors Oxygen-related TDs are electrically active microdefects in CZ silicon. They are usually generated in the temperature range of 350500 C, with the energy levels close to the conduction band edge. It has been reported that the TD formation is retarded in oxygen-rich SiGe alloy with more than 1% Ge content (Hild et al. 1998). In GCZ silicon, the Ge concentration is usually below 1020 cm3, much lower than that in the SiGe alloy. In this case, however, the Ge-doping still suppresses the formation of TDs in CZ silicon. Li et al. (2004) found that the generation rate of TDs in the CZ silicon co-doped with 1018 cm3 Ge atoms was much smaller than that in the conventional CZ silicon during the annealing at 450 C. Low temperature far- and medium-IR spectra as shown in Fig. 20 indicate that although the Ge doping suppresses the formation of TDs, it does not change the wavenumbers of the TD-related absorption bands. This result implies that the Ge doping does not affect the conﬁguration of TDs (Cui et al. 2006). The retardation effect of Ge on TDs has Fig. 20 Low temperature far- and medium-IR spectra in CZ and GCZ silicon (Reprinted with pending permission, Cui et al. 2006) 160 X. Yu and D. Yang been tentatively explained in terms of interactions between Ge atoms with vacancies and oxygen atoms. The Ge doping introduces compressive stress into silicon matrix, which can be relieved by attraction of vacancies. The consequent GeV complexes can further combine with oxygen atoms during the TD formation annealing. There- fore, the number of oxygen atoms available for TDs is decreased, thus leading to the retarded TD formation. Enhancement of Ge Doping on Silicon Mechanical Strength The mechanical properties of CZ silicon wafers are crucial for ensuring manufactur- ing yield of ICs and solar cells. Silicon is a brittle material at room temperature, thus being susceptible to breakage or fracture during device manufacturing due to either localized stress at sharp contacts during handling, chemicalmechanical polishing, backface grinding and dicing, or global stress during robot handling, down force during chemical mechanical polishing, etc. (Cook 2006). Silicon turns into a ductile material when annealed at temperatures beyond the brittleductile transition (BDT) point (Hirsch et al. 1989). In this case, the mechanical properties of silicon are dictated by dislocation generation and motion. The stress in the silicon wafer generated at high temperatures may result in warpage, which is detrimental for alignment in the lithography process, and even worse, may lead to slip lines which are the disastrous killer of device manufacturing yield. In a word, the mechanical properties of silicon at room and elevated temperatures are of great importance for crystal cutting and device manufacturing. For CZ silicon, the primary impurity of oxygen exerts signiﬁcant effects on the mechanical properties. Moreover, it has been veriﬁed that Ge doping also affects the mechanical properties of CZ silicon in different manners. The mechanical behavior of GCZ silicon has also been investigated by nano- indentation (Zeng et al. 2011). The GCZ silicon with a Ge concentration of 8  1019 cm3 shows a stiffer mechanical behavior under contact loading with sharper slopes for both loading and unloading segments, smaller maximum inden- tation depth and smaller residual indentation depth. It is derived from nano- indentation experiments that GCZ silicon has higher Youngs modulus and hardness of than ordinary CZ silicon. The improvement in the elastic module of GCZ silicon is supposed to be caused by the promotion effect of Ge doping on metallic phase transformation (Si-I to Si-II phase) during the indentation, which has been conﬁrmed by micro-Raman spectroscopy measurements (Xu et al. 2011). High concentration Ge doping can also suppress dislocation generation in silicon. Generally, a so-called Dash necking process is necessary in CZ silicon crystal growth in order to grow a dislocation-free silicon ingot. However, using an appro- priately Ge doped silicon seed, dislocation-free GCZ silicon can be grown success- fully without the Dash necking process. The generation of dislocations due to thermal shock was found to be suppressed in a seed with a cross-section of 7  7 mm2 when the doped Ge concentration exceeded 9  1019 cm3 (Taishi et al. 2002). Heavy Ge and boron co-doping (e.g. [Ge]: 4  1019 cm3, [B]: 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 161 9  1018 cm3) in silicon can also suppress dislocation generation signiﬁcantly due to the increase of critical resolved shear stress for dislocation generation (Yonenaga et al. 2005). Moreover, the Si1xGex alloy also shows higher yield strength than pure silicon due to higher concentration of Ge in silicon, and the yield strength of the alloy increases with increasing Ge concentrations in the region 0  x  0.1 (Yonenaga et al. 2005). Ge doping can also retard dislocation motion in silicon. The sizes of dislocation- motion-induced rosettes in Ge doped CZ silicon are smaller than those in conven- tional CZ silicon (Fukuda and Ohsawa 1992). Moreover, the rosette size decreases with increasing Ge concentrations, as shown in Fig. 21. The inﬂuence of Ge doping on dislocation moving velocity depends on the doping concentrations. The disloca- tion velocity is not signiﬁcantly reduced in the GCZ silicon with the Ge concentra- tions between 1019 and 1020 cm3, compared to that in Ge-free CZ silicon (Yonenaga et al. 2005). With a higher Ge concentration, such as 2.2% (1.1  1021 cm3) and 5.4% (2.7  1021 cm3), the dislocation movement can be obviously lower than that in conventional CZ silicon (Yonenaga 1999). As a substitutional impurity in silicon, Ge cannot lock dislocations as strongly as oxygen. The interaction energy between Ge atoms and dislocations is 0.34 eV/Å, much lower than those for oxygen (1.80 eV/Å). Moreover, the diffusion coefﬁcient of Ge in silicon is several orders of magnitude lower than that of oxygen. Therefore, the dislocation locking by Ge can be ignored when oxygen is present in silicon even if the Ge concentration is one to two orders of magnitude higher than the typical oxygen concentration in CZ silicon (1018 cm3). In addition to the direct interac- tion with dislocations, Ge can affect dislocation locking indirectly by inﬂuencing oxygen diffusion. It is found that the dislocation unlocking stress in Ge-doped CZ silicon ([Ge]: 8  1019 cm3) is lower than that in conventional CZ silicon. The strain introduced by Ge doping may retard oxygen diffusion in silicon, resulting in a lower unlocking stress (Zeng et al. 2011). Moreover, the enhancement of tiny Fig. 21 Rosette sizes in the CZ silicon wafer and the GCZ silicon wafers with different Ge concentrations subjected to 1,100 C/2 h annealing after the 200 g indentation 162 X. Yu and D. Yang oxygen precipitates in GCZ silicon also plays an important role in the locking effect of dislocation movement. Anti-irradiation Effect of Ge-Doped CZ Silicon Crystal Radiation-induced defects in GCZ silicon have been widely studied and it is found that Ge atoms tend to interact with vacancies to form GeV centers (Khirunenko et al. 2003). The GeV pair in CZ silicon has been studied by electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) (Watkins 1969), IR (Brelot and Charlemagne 1971) and deep level transient spectroscopy (DLTS) (Budtz-Jørgensen et al. 1998) techniques. The EPR measurements show the spectrum of a vacancy in GCZ silicon is roughly similar to that of an isolated vacancy (V) except in the hyperﬁne structure with several satellites (Watkins 1969). Vacancies are trapped next to substitutional Ge. By selec- tive illumination, charge states can be generated. The electronic structures of GeV+ and GeV were found to be slightly perturbed from that for V+ and V in silicon crystal, and their distortions and level positions appear very similar to those for the isolated vacancy. The binding energy of GeV is about 0.27 eV (Chroneos et al. 2009). The equilibrium concentration of vacancies in GCZ silicon with irradiation is signif- icantly higher than that in conventional CZ silicon (Vanhellemont et al. 2010). The vacancies can be released from Ge atoms in the irradiated silicon by annealing (Brelot and Charlemagne 1971; Budtz-Jørgensen et al. 1998; Vanhellemont et al. 2010). Watkins (1975) reported that the consequent release of vacancies could be observed as a growth in the 12 μm band when the vacancies in turn were trapped by oxygen atoms to form OV (A-centers). Brelot et al. (1971) also studied the stability of GeV in n-type silicon containing 3  1020 Ge atoms/cm3 by IR technique. There was no 12 μm absorption line related to VO after a 90 K electron irradiation. The A-centers appear only after annealing between 200 and 280 K. This means that the Ge acts as an efﬁcient trap for vacancies at low temperatures, and the trapped vacancies can be released from the GeV centers by thermal activation in the range of 200280 K. The electrical levels of GeV pairs in GCZ silicon have not been directly measured. The dangling bond reconstructions reveal an only slightly perturbed vacancy, and its general behavior vs. electrical properties, such as Fermi level, optical excitation, appears identical to that of the isolated vacancy (George 2000). The DLTS results of the n-type GeSi alloy after electron radiation (Budtz-Jørgensen et al. 1998) show that the energy level of GeV complexes is about Ec0.29 eV, with a capture cross section of 5  1016 cm2 for electrons. Chroneos et al. found that the total energy of the conﬁgurations for the multi- vacancies involved GCZ silicon super-cells would follow the bond-length-related rules by ﬁrst principles simulation. Vacancies tend to bind with Ge atoms and relax the local lattice deformation stresses in silicon. Therefore, it seems that Ge atoms in CZ silicon crystals act as nuclei sites for GeV pairs. In this way, it is therefore proposed that the vacancy could transfer to the surroundings of the generated GeV 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 163 pairs with a probable routing of Ge ! GeV ! GeV2 ! GeV3 ! GeVm (m = 4, 5, 6,. . .) transformation. Using the law of mass action, the relative concentrations of defect clusters can be expressed as follows, GemVn ½ = Ge ½ m V ½ n ¼ exp Eb=kBT ð Þ (18) where Eb is the binding energy of the clusters, [GemVn] the concentration of a GemVn cluster, [Ge] the concentration of unbound Ge atoms, [V] the concentration of unbound V, kB Boltzmanns constant, and T the temperature. Figure 22 shows the variation of the concentration of GeVn clusters and Vn clusters with temperatures (Chroneos and Londos 2010). It can be seen that [GeVn] is lower than [Vn] at the whole temperature range. The binding energies of GeVn clusters are higher than that of Vn clusters by a value of 0.35 eV. It indicates that Ge cannot act as a site to trap a signiﬁcant proportion of vacancies. Interstitial oxygen atoms can also be captured by Ge atoms to form stable GeO complexes, but the oxygen atom should be located at the third-nearest-neighbor site to the Ge atom (Chroneos and Londos 2010). The interstitial oxygen occupies the bridging position between two silicon atoms, forming the Si2O molecule, which causes IR absorption bands at 30, 1,100,and 1,200 cm1, and which beneﬁt different local vibration modes (LVMs) of Si2O quasi-molecule (Yang and Chen 2005). In heavily doped GCZ silicon, the oscillator strength of the 1,200 cm1 band absorp- tion and the peak separations between the 1,100 cm1 band absorptions are largely reduced, which are attributed to the perturbation of SiOSi centers by the nearby Ge atoms. Furthermore, three additional low-frequency IR absorption lines located at 1,130, 1,127, and 1,184 cm1 are detected in GCZ silicon with a Ge concentration of 2  1020 cm3 (Khirunenko et al. 1999). The shifted positions of other bands are ascribed to the weakened harmonic coupling between the rotational and asymmetric vibration modes of the SiOSi molecule (Khirunenko et al. 1999). For higher values of the Ge content, a broad, low-frequency band is found (Humlíček et al. Fig. 22 The temperature dependence of the concentration of Vn clusters in comparison to the concentration of GeVn clusters for a Ge concentration of 1019 cm3, an initial V supersaturation of 1018 cm3 (Reprinted with pending permission, Chroneos et al. 2009) 164 X. Yu and D. Yang 2006), attributed to the vibrations of the Si2O units with several nearest-neighbor lattice sites occupied by Ge atoms. The observed absorption bands can be described as the vibration of interstitial oxygen disturbed by Ge atoms located in the nearest second, third, and fourth coordination spheres relative to an oxygen atom (Khirunenko et al. 2001), seeing Fig. 23. Theoretical calculations also demonstrate the stability and the conﬁgurations of different possible GeO complexes in CZ silicon (Chroneos and Londos 2010). The oxygen atom is preferable to stay away from the Ge atom and most likely to form Si2O molecules. However, these molecules may have Ge atoms in their neighbor- hood. This is supported by the much lower formation enthalpy (910.7 kJ/mol) of SiO2 (α-quartz), than that (580.0 kJ/mol) of GeO2 (rutile) (Markevich et al. 2004). But it is possible to form SiOGe molecules (Hao et al. 2004). Note that the effect of the Ge atoms on the geometry and vibration properties of the Si2O molecules is not signiﬁcant. In order to relieve the lattice stress, Ge atoms incline to react with vacancies and interstitial oxygen to form related complexes (Yang and Chen 2005). VO defects containing a core Ge atom (one of the neighbors or next neighbors of the vacancy) are referred as GeVO complexes (Londos et al. 2009). The following equation illustrates the formation of GeVO by the VO defect diffusing toward Ge (Yang and Chen 2005), Ge þ V þ O ! GeVO (19) The structure of VO in the Si1xGex crystals has been studied by DLTS and ab initio modeling. Figure 24 shows the considered structures of the GeVO complex. The formation energy of GeVO at sites of b, a0, and b0 are 0.07, 0.19, and 0.09 eV, respectively, by ab initio modeling (Markevich et al. 2004). The binding energy of the deeper GeVO complex is found to be about 0.18 eV from the DLTS studies. Fig. 23 Part of the silicon crystal lattice around a substitutional Ge atom, showing the ﬁrst-, second-, third-, and fourth-neighbor bonds to the Ge atom (Reprinted with pending permission, Khirunenko et al. 2001) 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 165 From the FTIR measurements, it is known that the 839.2 cm1 band grows at the expense of the 834.6 cm1 band, both of them lying above the main band of VO at 830 cm1 (Markevich et al. 2004). Therefore, the 839.2 cm1 band to VOGea0 and the 834.6 cm1 band are assigned to VOGeb0 and/or VOGeb defect forms. This assignment is also supported by the relative defect stability and respective electric levels. Most of stable GeVO complexes produce an acceptor state very close to that of VO, but VOGea0 has a deeper level, i.e., 20 meV deeper than VO (2/0). The acceptor state of GeVO is more localized than that of VO. Markevich et al. found from the DLTS studies at least three conﬁgurations of VO centers with distinct levels and the energy level shifted upward from the level of the dominant conﬁguration in as-irradiated GCZ Si material. On isochronal annealing in the temperature range of 200300 C, the dominant VO defect transforms into another one whose level is about 25 meV deeper (Markevich et al. 2004). Ge atoms in silicon can effectively compete with oxygen in trapping vacancies (Chroneos and Londos 2010), and therefore, a gradual increase in the concentra- tion of VO defects is observed versus Ge content (Londos et al. 2009). Taking into account a noticeable fraction of oxygen atoms with nearby Ge atoms in CZ silicon, it is believed that such defects may be more effective traps for vacancies than isolated oxygen atoms due to a larger cross-section for vacancy capture (Schmalz and Emtsev 1994). After vacancy capture by Ge, the electronic properties and thermal stability of GeVO are expected to differ from those of the A-centers, and their annealing via vacancy dissociation gives rise to A-center formation (Schmalz and Emtsev 1994). LID Effect of Ge-Doped CZ Silicon Crystal It is well known that the LID effect of CZ silicon solar cells is related to the boron and oxygen impurities. However, the exact form of boron and oxygen existing in the Fig. 24 The VOGe complex considered here results from substituting ﬁrst- or second-neighboring silicon atoms by Ge. These structures are labeled with letters from a to c and a0 to c0 (Reprinted with pending permission, Markevich et al. 2004) 166 X. Yu and D. Yang defects has kept as a puzzle for a long time. Voronkov and Falster (2010) have proposed a new BiO2i model for the structure of BO defects, in which the O2i is not mobile at room temperature, but bound with an interstitial boron atom. However, the density functional theory calculation has clariﬁed that the most stable conﬁguration of BiO2i keeps constant in various charge states, in which the Bi, one Oi, and two Si atoms form a four membered ring in the {101} plane (Chen et al. 2013). The result is apparently against the formation mechanism of the BiO2i complex. The BsO2i model is more acceptable for most researchers, which is composed of a substitutional boron atom (Bs) and an interstitial oxygen dimer (O2i). However, Murin et al. (2011) reported that they found no clue of the existence of the doubly positively charged oxygen dimer (O2i ++) and doubted whether the O2i can play the central role in the formation of BO complexes. By choosing a series of samples with different oxygen concentrations, Chen et al. (2013) have investigated the correlation of BO complexes with the O2i in silicon. It is found that the LID defect concentration and the stagger type [O2i] in CZ silicon have the similar dependence on the annealing temperatures, with quite close binding energies, meaning that the LID defect concentration is proportional to the concentration of stagger type O2i. Moreover, even though the value of [O2i st]/[Oi]2 is inﬂuenced by the oxygen content level, the proportionality between the LID defect concentration and [O2i st] is still established. These ﬁnding suggests that the O2i st is one ingredient of BO com- plexes. Hence, the method of reducing the [O2i st] should be effective to suppress the generation of BO complexes. Ge doping in CZ silicon is a strategy of suppressing the BO defects (Yu et al. 2010). Figure 25 shows the evolution of the normalized BO defect concentrations under one sun illumination at 50 C for the conventional CZ silicon and GCZ silicon containing a Ge concentration of 8  1019/cm3 as well as the referenced Ga-doped sample. Note that the concentration of BO defects keeps almost zero for the referenced sample during the illumination, indicating that the wafer surface passiv- ation is quite stable under illumination, and meanwhile no carrier lifetime degrada- tion takes place in the bulk. For both the conventional CZ and GCZ samples, the Fig. 25 The normalized concentration of BO defects as a function of illumination time at 50 C for the conventional CZ silicon and the GCZ silicon containing the Ge concentration of 8  1019/cm3 as well as the referenced Ga-doped CZ silicon (Reprinted with pending permission, Yu et al. 2010) 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 167 BO defect concentration increases with an increase in illumination time and then reaches a stable value in hundreds of minutes. More importantly, one can see that the saturated concentration of BO defects in the GCZ sample is obviously lower than that in the CZ silicon. Since these two samples with similar thermal history almost contain the same concentration of boron and interstitial oxygen, the present result strongly evidences that Ge doping can reduce the saturated concentration of BO defects in CZ silicon. The study on the defect kinetics shows that the activation energies for the BO defect generation and dissociation in the GCZ silicon are around 0.63 and 1.52 eV, respectively, both larger than those in the conventional CZ silicon. The corresponding pre-exponential factors also are enhanced by two orders of magnitude due to Ge doping. It is believed that the Ge cannot only cause a higher energy barrier for oxygen-dimer O2i diffusion, due to its modulation on the crystal ﬁeld in silicon lattice, but also enhance the capture cross-section of Bs for O2i, as predicted by ﬁrst-principle calculation. However, it should be noted that a relatively low concentration of Ge cannot effectively suppress the formation of BO defects. When the Ge concentration is beyond 1019/cm3, the reduction in BO defects can be effectively triggered, whose percentage increases with an increase in Ge concentrations. So, a higher concentration of Ge will beneﬁt for the suppression of the BO defects in CZ silicon. However, it should be mentioned that Ge doping in CZ silicon with extremely high concentrations like 1020/cm3 could not be practically used for PV industry, since it will not only increase the cost of crystal, but also easily cause the cellular growth. Based on this consideration, Ge doping in CZ silicon with a concentration in the order of 1019/cm3 is more interesting for us. After fabricating hundreds of solar cells based on the conventional CZ silicon wafers and the GCZ silicon wafers containing the Ge concentration in the order of 1019/cm3, an average 2% loss in efﬁciency can be found for the conventional CZ silicon solar cells after 2-week sun light illumination, while a smaller efﬁciency loss of 1.75% for the GCZ silicon solar cells. Likewise, the evolutions of power outputs of PV modules based on the conventional CZ and GCZ silicon exhibit the same trend. The power output loss of GCZ module can be saved by a value of 5%, compared to the conventional one. Based on these results, it is believed that the GCZ silicon can be practically used in PV industry for reducing the LID effect of solar cells. The lower concentration of BsO2i in GCZ silicon might be attributed to the reduction in O2i concentration due to Ge doping. Figure 26 shows the typical absorption spectra measured at 10 K of the conventional CZ silicon and GCZ silicon with a Ge concentration of 8  1019/cm3. One can see that three vibrational IR absorption bands associated with O2i at 1,012, 1,060, and 1,105 cm1, respectively, appear in the low-temperature FTIR spectra for both the samples (Murin et al. 1998). More importantly, the intensities of all these three absorption bands in the GCZ silicon are signiﬁcantly lower than those in the conventional CZ silicon, suggesting that a lower concentration of O2i indeed exists in the GCZ sample. The O2i in CZ silicon forms from two Oi atoms based on diffusion mechanism via Oi + Oi ! O2i. The concentration of O2i is actually determined by the Oi concentration and the Oi diffusion energy barrier. Since our conventional CZ and GCZ silicon contain 168 X. Yu and D. Yang the same concentration of Oi, the only reason for the reduction in O2i in GCZ silicon is that the Ge doping increases the energy barrier of Oi diffusion. In fact, Ge, as a substitutional impurity with the atom size larger than silicon, can essentially give rise to considerable local perturbation of silicon lattice. Therefore, it is believed that Ge doping must necessarily increase the crystal ﬁelds of silicon lattice. This consequently causes a large energy barrier for Oi diffusion to form the O2i. Furthermore, it is worthy to mention that an infrared absorption band associated with the local vibrational mode of GeO bond has also been found in GCZ silicon, which is close the signal of Oi. This indicates that the substitutional Ge atoms in silicon lattice tend to bind with Oi and form GeO complexes, which has been predicted by our previous experiments and ﬁrst-principle theoretical calculations (Wang and Yang 2009). The binding of Ge with Oi in silicon lattice will reduce the concentration of free Oi, contributing to the formation of O2i. This should also ﬁnally result in a decrease in O2i concentration and therefore suppress the BsO2i defects. Conclusion The CZ pulling method is the main technique used at present to grow single crystals of silicon in photovoltaic industry. Polysilicon feed is used as a raw material, and the entire charge is kept inside the quartz crucible supported by graphite. By using the graphite heater, the charge is melted at the desired temperature and dopant species are added at this stage to the silicon melt to get the desired resistivity values. When using a seed crystal, it is ﬁrst allowed to touch the molten silicon and then is slowly pulled up, allowing the molten silicon to solidify according to the seed crystal. In this process, the crucible and graphite heaters become the source of oxygen and carbon contamination for the growing silicon crystal, respectively. We have reviewed recent advances in the understanding of some of the science and engineering aspects of CZ Fig. 26 Typical FTIR spectra measured at 10 K for the conventional CZ and GCZ silicon with a Ge concentration of 8  1019/cm3 (Reprinted with pending permission, Yu et al. 2010) 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 169 silicon growth. A better understanding of the control mechanisms and their interac- tions has facilitated the development of growth processes for more uniform oxygen distribution at desired incorporation levels. We have analyzed the causes of defects in CZ crystals and discussed their effects on solar cell performances. The impurity incorporation behavior under the inﬂuence of applied magnetic ﬁeld is introduced. Crystal growth from small melts and constant melt volume provided by double- crucible arrangements yields improved axial and radial uniformity. The double- crucible methodology can be extended to a generalized two-container, continuous feed and pull growth system with the beneﬁt of the double crucibles. The avail- ability of recently developed granular polysilicon simpliﬁes the development of a crystal growth process using continuous feed and pull. Pseudo-square ingot growth can effectively avoid the loss that the round CZ silicon crystals are cut into pseudo-squares for the sake of solar modules. The Ge doping during crystal growth can improve the CZ silicon mechanical strength and suppress the boronoxygen complexes. This will not only enable thinner solar cells for the reduction of cost, but also beneﬁt for the fabrication of high efﬁciency solar cells with low LID effects. In the future, the main development goals will be to improve the economy of the CZ silicon crystal production, in particular by growing longer crystals from large melts. At the same time, the quality of the crystals must be continuously improved, especially in respect to oxygen impurities and defects. References D.R. Bosomworth, W. Hayes, A.R.L. Spray, G.D. Watkins, Absorption of oxygen in silicon in the near and the far infrared. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A Math. Phys. and Eng. Sci. 317(1528), 133152 (1970) A. Brelot, J. Charlemagne, Infrared studies of low temperature electron irradiated silicon containing germanium oxygen and carbon. Radiat. Eff. 9(1-2), 6573 (1971) A. Brelot, J. Charlemagne, Radiat. Eff. 9, 65 (1971) C.V. Budtz-Jørgensen, P. Kringhøj, A.N. Larsen, N.V. Abrosimov, Deep-level transient spectros- copy of the Ge-vacancy pair in Ge-doped n-type silicon. Phys. Rev. B 58(3), 1110 (1998) P. Capper, A.W. Jones, E.J. Wallhouse, J.G. Wilkes, The effects of heat treatment on dislocation- free oxygen-containing silicon crystals. J. Appl. Phys. 48(4), 16461655 (1977) J.R. Carruthers, A.F. Witt, R.E. Reusser, Czochralski growth of large diameter silicon crystals  convection and segregation. Semicond. Silicon 3, 61 (1977) S.N. Chakravarti, P.L. Garbarino, K. Murty, Oxygen precipitation effects on Si n+-p junction leakage behavior. Appl. Phys. Lett. 40(7), 581583 (1982) L. Chen, X. Yu, P. Chen, P. Wang, X. Gu, J. Lu, D. Yang, Effect of oxygen precipitation on the performance of Czochralski silicon solar cells. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 95(11), 31483151 (2011a) P. Chen, X. Yu, L. Chen, D. Yang, Formation of shallow junctions in gallium and phosphorus compensated silicon for cell performance improvement. Scr. Mater. 65(10), 871874 (2011b) P. Chen, X. Yu, X. Liu, X. Chen, Y. Wu, D. Yang, Experimental evidence of staggered oxygen dimers as a component of boronoxygen complexes in silicon. Appl. Phys. Lett. 102(8), 082107 (2013a) X. Chen, X. Yu, X. Zhu, P. Chen, D. Yang, First-principles study of interstitial boron and oxygen dimer complex in silicon. Appl. Phys. Express 6, 041301 (2013b) 170 X. Yu and D. Yang A. Chroneos, C.A. Londos, Interaction of A-centers with isovalent impurities in silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 107(9), 093518 (2010) A. Chroneos, R.W. Grimes, H. Bracht, Impact of germanium on vacancy clustering in germanium- doped silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 105(1), 016102 (2009) R.F. Cook, Strength and sharp contact fracture of silicon. J. Mater. Sci. 41(3), 841872 (2006) C. Cui, D. Yang, X. Ma, M. Li, D. Que, Effect of light germanium doping on thermal donors in Czochralski silicon wafers. Mater. Sci. Semicond. Process. 9(1), 110113 (2006) M. Dhamrin, T. Saitoh, Characterization of the initial rapid decay on light-induced carrier lifetime and cell performance degradation of Czochralski-grown silicon. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 42(5R), 2564 (2003) P. Fahey, S.S. Iyer, G.J. Scilla, Experimental evidence of both interstitial- and vacancy-assisted diffusion of Ge in Si. Appl. Phys. Lett. 54(9), 843845 (1989) T. Fukuda, A. Ohsawa, Mechanical strength of silicon crystals with oxygen and/or germanium impurities. Appl. Phys. Lett. 60(10), 11841186 (1992) P. Gaworzewski, K. Schmalz, Oxygen-related donors formed at 600C in silicon in dependence on oxygen and carbon content. Phys. Status Solidi A 77(2), 571582 (1983) D. W. George, Mater. Sci. Semi. Proc. 3, 227 (2000) S. W. Glunz, S. Rein, W. Warta, J. Knobloch, W. Wettling, In Proceedings of the 2nd World Conference on Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conversion, Vienna, 1343 (1998) S. Hao, L. Kantorovich, G. Davies, Interstitial oxygen in Si and Si 1-x Ge x. Phys. Rev. B 69(15), 155204 (2004) H. Hashigami, M. Dhamrin, T. Saitoh, Performance degradation of Czochralski-grown silicon solar cells by means of current injection. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 41(11A), L1191 (2002) D. Helda, W. Robert, M. Liaw, Melt recharge method, U.S. Patent No. 4557795, U.S. Patent and Trademark Ofﬁce, Washington, DC, 1985 G. Hettich, H.K. Mehrer, in Maier in Defects and Radiation Effects in Semiconductors, ed. by J.H. Albany. Institute of Physics Conference Series, vol 46 (Institute of Physics, London, 1978), p. 500 E. Hild, P. Gaworzewski, M. Franz, K. Pressel, Thermal donors in silicon-rich SiGe. Appl. Phys. Lett. 72(11), 13621364 (1998) H. Hirata, K. Hoshikawa, Silicon crystal growth in a cusp magnetic ﬁeld. J. Cryst. Growth 96(4), 747755 (1989) P.B. Hirsch, S.G. Roberts, J. Samuels, The brittleductile transition in silicon. II. Interpretation. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A Mat. Phys. Eng. Sci. 421(1860), 2553 (1989) K. Hoshi, T. Suzuki, Y. Okubo, N. Isawa, Cz silicon crystal grown in transverse magnetic-ﬁelds. J. Electrochem. Soc. 127(3), C113C113 (1980) K. Hoshi, N. Isawa, T. Suzuki, Y. Ohkubo, Czochralski silicon crystals grown in a transverse magnetic ﬁeld. J. Electrochem. Soc. 132(3), 693700 (1985) R. Hull, Properties of crystalline silicon, INSPEC, The institution of electrical engineers, London, United Kindom (1999) J. Humlíček, R. Štoudek, A. Dubroka, Infrared vibrations of interstitial oxygen in silicon-rich SiGe alloys. Phys. B Condens. Matter 376, 212215 (2006) J.M. Hwang, D.K. Schroder, Recombination properties of oxygen-precipitated silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 59(7), 24762487 (1986) L.I. Khirunenko, Y.V. Pomozov, M.G. Sosnin, V.K. Shinkarenko, Oxygen in silicon doped with isovalent impurities. Phys. B Condens. Matter 273, 317321 (1999) L.I. Khirunenko, V.A. Zasuha, Y.V. Pomozov, M.G. Sosnin, Disturbance of oxygen by isovalent impurity atoms in silicon. Phys. B Condens. Matter 308, 301304 (2001) L.I. Khirunenko, O.O. Kobzar, Y.V. Pomozov, M.G. Sosnin, G. Weyer, Interstitial-related reactions in silicon doped with isovalent impurities. Phys. B Condens. Matter 340342, 546550 (2003) E. Kuroda, S. Matsubara, T. Saitoh, Czochralski growth of square silicon single crystals. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 19(7), L361 (1980) R.L. Lane, A.H. Kachare, Multiple Czochralski growth of silicon crystals from a single crucible. J. Cryst. Growth 50(2), 437444 (1980) 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 171 H. Li, D. Yang, X. Yu, X. Ma, D. Tian, L. Li, D. Que, The effect of germanium doping on oxygen donors in Czochralski-grown silicon. J. Phys. Condens. Matter 16(32), 5745 (2004) H.M. Liaw, Growth of single crystal silicon square ingots. Electrochem. Soc. Meet. Extended Abstract, 80-1, 806807 (1980) C.A. Londos, M.J. Binns, A.R. Brown, S.A. McQuaid, R.C. Newman, Effect of oxygen concen- tration on the kinetics of thermal donor formation in silicon at temperatures between 350 and 500C. Appl. Phys. Lett. 62(13), 15251526 (1993) C.A. Londos, A. Andrianakis, V. Emtsev, H. Ohyama, Radiation effects on the behavior of carbon and oxygen impurities and the role of Ge in Czochralski grown Si upon annealing. J. Appl. Phys. 105(12), 123508 (2009) R.E. Lorenzini, A. Iwata, K. Lorenz, U.S. Patent No. 4,036,595,U.S. Patent and Trademark Ofﬁce, Washington, DC, 1977 D. Macdonald, F. Rougieux, A. Cuevas, B. Lim, J. Schmidt, M. Di Sabatino, L.J. Geerligs, Light- induced boronoxygen defect generation in compensated p-type Czochralski silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 105(9), 093704 (2009) V.P. Markevich, A.R. Peaker, J. Coutinho, R. Jones, V.J.B. Torres, S. Öberg, et al., Structure and properties of vacancy-oxygen complexes in Si 1-x Ge x alloys. Phys. Rev. B 69(12), 125218 (2004) G.L. McVay, A.R. DuCharme, The diffusion of germanium in silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 44(3), 14091410 (1973) H.J. Monkhorst, J.D. Pack, Special points for Brillouin-zone integrations. Phys. Rev. B 13(12), 5188 (1976) L.I. Murin, T. Hallberg, V.P. Markevich, J.L. Lindström, Experimental evidence of the oxygen dimer in silicon. Phys. Rev. Lett. 80(1), 93 (1998) L.I. Murin, E.A. Tolkacheva, V.P. Markevich, A.R. Peaker, B. Hamilton, E. Monakhov, et al., The oxygen dimer in Si: Its relationship to the light-induced degradation of Si solar cells? Appl. Phys. Lett. 98(18), 182101 (2011) X. Niu, W. Zhang, G. Lu, Z. Jiang, Distribution of Ge in high concentration Ge-doped Czochralski- Si crystal. J. Cryst. Growth 267(3), 424428 (2004a) X. Niu, W. Zhang, E. Zhang, J. Sun, G. Lu, FTIR spectroscopy of high concentration Ge-doped Czochralski-Si. J. Cryst. Growth 263(1), 167170 (2004b) W. OMara, R.B. Herring, L.P. Hunt, Handbook of Semiconductor Silicon Technology (Crest Publishing House, Norwich, 2007) M. Ogino, Y. Oana, M. Watanabe, The diffusion coefﬁcient of germanium in silicon. Phys. Status Solidi A 72(2), 535541 (1982) M. Ohwa, T. Higuchi, E. Toji, M. Watanabe, K. Homma, S. Takasu, Growth of large diameter silicon single crystal under horizontal or vertical magnetic ﬁeld, In Semiconductor Silicon, The Electrochemical Society, Princeton, 117128 (1986) D.W. Palmer, K. Bothe, J. Schmidt, Kinetics of the electronically stimulated formation of a boronoxygen complex in crystalline silicon. Phys. Rev. B 76(3), 035210 (2007) A.D. Petrov, L.L. Shchukovskaya, S.I. Sadykhzade, Y.P. Egorov, The synthesis and dehydration of unsaturated silicon containing alcohols. Dokl. Akad. Nauk SSSR 115(3), 522525 (1957) P. Pichler, Intrinsic Point Defects, Impurities, and Their Diffusion in Silicon (Springer, Wien, 2004) S.N. Rea, J.D. Lawrence, J.M. Anthony, Effective segregation coefﬁcient of germanium in Czochralski silicon. J. Electrochem. Soc. 134(3), 752753 (1987) S. Rein, S.W. Glunz, Electronic properties of the metastable defect in boron-doped Czochralski silicon: Unambiguous determination by advanced lifetime spectroscopy. Appl. Phys. Lett. 82 (7), 10541056 (2003) H.J. Ruiz, G.P. Pollack, High temperature annealing behavior of oxygen in silicon. J. Electrochem. Soc. 125(1), 128130 (1978) 172 X. Yu and D. Yang W.R. Runyan, Silicon Semiconductor Technology (McGraw-Hill, New York, 1965) K. Schmalz, V.V. Emtsev, Radiation-induced defects in Czochralski-grown silicon doped with germanium. Appl. Phys. Lett. 65(12), 15751577 (1994) J. Schmidt, K. Bothe, Structure and transformation of the metastable boron and oxygen-related defect center in crystalline silicon. Phys. Rev. B 69(2), 024107 (2004) J. Schmidt, A. G. Aberle, R. Hezel, in Proceedings of the 26th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, IEEE, Anaheim, 13 (1997) F. Shimura, Semiconductor Silicon Crystal Technology (Academic, San Diego, 1989), pp. 6971 F. Shimura, M. Kimura, Growth method and equipment of semiconductor single crystals, Japanese Patent 56-190318, 1981 T. Taishi, X. Huang, I. Yonenaga, K. Hoshikawa, Dislocation behavior in heavily germanium-doped silicon crystal. Mater. Sci. Semicond. Process. 5(4), 409412 (2002) C.D. Thurmond, F.A. Trumbore, M. Kowalchik, Germanium solidus curves. J. Chem. Phys. 25(4), 799800 (1956) J. Vanhellemont, E. Simoen, A. Kaniava, M. Libezny, C. Claeys, Impact of oxygen related extended defects on silicon diode characteristics. J. Appl. Phys. 77(11), 56695676 (1995) J. Vanhellemont, M. Suezawa, I. Yonenaga, On the impact of germanium doping on the vacancy formation energy in Czochralski-grown silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 108, 016105 (2010) V.V. Voronkov, R. Falster, Latent complexes of interstitial boron and oxygen dimers as a reason for degradation of silicon-based solar cells. J. Appl. Phys. 107(5), 053509 (2010) L. Wang, D. Yang, Structure of GeO complexes in Czochralski silicon. Phys. B Condens. Matter 404(1), 5860 (2009) P. Wang, X. Yu, P. Chen, X. Li, D. Yang, X. Chen, Z. Huang, Germanium-doped Czochralski silicon for photovoltaic applications. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 95(8), 24662470 (2011) M. Watanabe, T. Usami, H. Muraoka, S. Matsuo, Y. Imanishi, H. Nagashima, Oxygen-free silicon single crystal grown from silicon nitride crucible. Semicond. Silicon 4, 126 (1981) G.D. Watkins, A microscopic view of radiation damage in semiconductors using EPR as a probe invited paper. IEEE Trans. Nucl. Sci. 16(6), 1318 (1969) G.D. Watkins, Defects in irradiated silicon: EPR of the tin-vacancy pair. Phys. Rev. B 12(10), 4383 (1975) C. Xiao, D. Yang, X. Yu, X. Gu, D. Que, Inﬂuence of the compensation level on the performance of p-type crystalline silicon solar cells: Theoretical calculations and experimental study. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 107, 263271 (2012a) C. Xiao, D. Yang, X. Yu, P. Wang, P. Chen, D. Que, Effect of dopant compensation on the performance of Czochralski silicon solar cells. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 101, 102106 (2012b) W. Xu, J. Chen, X. Ma, D. Yang, L. Gong, D. Tian, Characterization of a Czochralski grown silicon crystal doped with 1020cm-3 germanium. Cryst. Res. Technol. 46(1), 1013 (2011) D. Yang, J. Chen, Defects and Diffusion in Ceramics: An Annual Retrospective Vii 242244, 169 (2005) I. Yonenaga, Growth and mechanical properties of GeSi bulk crystals. J. Mater. Sci. Mater. Electron. 10(5), 329333 (1999) I. Yonenaga, T. Taishi, X. Huang, K. Hoshikawa, Dislocationimpurity interaction in Czochralski- grown Si heavily doped with B and Ge. J. Cryst. Growth 275(1), e501e505 (2005) X. Yu, P. Wang, P. Chen, X. Li, D. Yang, Suppression of boronoxygen defects in p-type Czochralski silicon by germanium doping. Appl. Phys. Lett. 97(5), 051903 (2010) X. Yu, X. Zheng, K. Hoshikawa, D. Yang, Crystal growth of indium-doped Czochralski silicon for photovoltaic application. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 51(10R), 105501 (2012) S. Yuan, X. Yu, X. Gu, Y. Feng, J. Lu, D. Yang, Aluminum-doped crystalline silicon and its photovoltaic application. Superlattice. Microst. 99, 158164 (2016) 6 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si 173 Z. Zeng, J.D. Murphy, R.J. Falster, X. Ma, D. Yang, P.R. Wilshaw, The effect of impurity-induced lattice strain and Fermi level position on low temperature oxygen diffusion in silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 109(6), 063532 (2011a) Z. Zeng, L. Wang, X. Ma, S. Qu, J. Chen, Y. Liu, D. Yang, Improvement in the mechanical performance of Czochralski silicon under indentation by germanium doping. Scr. Mater. 64(9), 832835 (2011b) W. Zhang, S. Yan, Z. Ji, Effective segregation coefﬁcient and steady state segregation coefﬁcient of germanium in Czochralski silicon. J. Cryst. Growth 169(3), 598599 (1996) 174 X. Yu and D. Yang Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method 7 C. W. Lan Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 176 The Emergence of HP mc-Si .................................................................... 177 The Growth of HP mc-Si ........................................................................ 178 The Performance of HP mc-Si .................................................................. 181 Growth of HP mc-Si Without Seeding .......................................................... 183 The Properties of HP mc-Si ..................................................................... 186 Outlook for HP mc-Si ........................................................................... 187 Conclusion ....................................................................................... 190 Cross-References ................................................................................ 190 References ....................................................................................... 190 Abstract The emergence of high-performance multicrystalline silicon (HP mc-Si) in 2011 has made a signiﬁcant impact to photovoltaic (PV) industry. In addition to the much better ingot uniformity and production yield, HP mc-Si also has better material quality for solar cells. As a result, the average efﬁciency of solar cells made from HP mc-Si in production increased from 16.6% in 2011 to 18.5% or beyond in 2016. With an advanced cell structure, an average efﬁciency of more than 20% has also been reported. More importantly, the efﬁciency distribution became much narrower; the difference even from various wafer producers became smaller as well. Unlike the conventional way of having large grains and electrically inactive twin boundaries, the crystal growth of HP mc-Si by directional solidiﬁcation is initiated from uniform small grains having a high fraction of random grain boundaries (GBs). The grains developed from such grain structures signiﬁcantly relax thermal stress and suppress the massive generation C. W. Lan (*) Department of Chemical Engineering, National Taiwan University (NTU), Taipei, Taiwan e-mail: cwlan@ntu.edu.tw  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_34 175 and propagation of dislocation clusters. The gettering efﬁcacy of HP mc-Si is also superior to the conventional one, which also increases solar cell efﬁciency. Nowadays, most of commercial mc-Si is grown by this approach, which could be implemented by either seeded with silicon particles or controlled nucleation, e.g., through nucleation agent coating. The future improvement of this technol- ogy is also discussed in this chapter. Keywords A2: High-performance  B2: Multicrystalline Si  A1: Directional solidiﬁcation  A1: Casting  A1: Dislocation cluster  A1: Grain boundary  A1: Lifetime  A1: Gettering Introduction In 2015, the annual PV production was about 57 GW, and the solar cells made from mc-Si shared the production of 68% (Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems 2016). The mc-Si has been grown by the directional solidiﬁcation (DS) or casting since late 1970s due to its high throughput and low cost (Lan et al. 2015; Khattak and Schmid 1987). Although DS is a matured technology, as discussed in the previous chapters, due to the higher structure defects and impurities, the ingot quality of mc-Si has been much inferior to the dislocation-free single-crystalline Si (sc-Si) grown by the Cz method. To mimic sc-Si, over the past 30 years, tremendous effort has been focused on the growth of large grains with more electrically inactive GBs, especially the Σ3 twin boundaries. Among these efforts, the mono-like (Stoddard 2007; Stoddard et al. 2008) and dendritic casting techniques (Fujiwara et al. 2006; Li et al. 2011, 2012; Nakajima et al. 2010a, b; Wang et al. 2009; Yeh et al. 2010) are the most typical ones, and their schematics are shown in Fig. 1a, b, respectively. For the mono-like techniques, due to the limited size of the seeds from the Cz ingot, the splitting seeds are usually used as illustrated in Fig. 1a. The seed orientation is usually in (100) for the ease of alkaline texturing during solar cell production; the Fig. 1 Schematics of different DS technologies: (a) mono-like casting using splitting seeds; (b) dendritic casting; (c) HP mc-Si (Lan et al. (2016b) with permission of Elsevier) 176 C. W. Lan textures on the silicon wafer enhance light trapping, which is crucial for solar cell efﬁciency. On the other hand, instead of using the seeds, the dendritic casting technique, as illustrated in Fig. 1b, is to use the growth habit of silicon facetted dendrites to initiate a dendritic layer by high undercooling. Because the dendritic growth in the lateral direction at high undercooling (10 K) is preferred in 110, the grains in the ingot growth direction could then be controlled in 112 (Fujiwara et al. 2006; Nakajima et al. 2010a, b). Both approaches are effective in the growth of large grains having fewer GBs, and the GBs are mainly coherent Σ3 in the dendritic casting. The details could be found in other chapters. Since 2006, Lans group at NTU also has worked with Sino-American Silicon Products Inc. (SAS) to develop the dendrite casting method for mass production. For small ingots, they could reach a very high percentage of Σ3 GBs, up to 80%, with very high minority lifetime (Yeh et al. 2010). Even in industry-scale wafers, the twining area had rather low defects and high lifetime (Li et al. 2012; Lan 2011a). With this belief, they continued to develop the dendritic casting technique for several years until 2010; however, the progress was slow. During this period of time, most companies, including SAS, started to shift their effort to the mono-like technique, especially after the Mono2 wafers of BP Solar appeared in the market in 2006 (Stoddard et al. 2008). Afterward, a few companies announced the success of mono-like production, such as the U-grade wafers from SAS, Virtus wafers from Renasolar, S2 wafers from GCL, and Maple wafers from JA Solar. SAS also branded its 110 mono-like wafers as E-wafers, which were found to have a better lifetime uniformity in the ingot production. Although the mono-like technology attracted much attention since 2006, it stayed in the market only for a short period of time (PV Magazine 2012). As the HP mc-Si emerged in late 2011 (Lan 2011a, b; Lan et al. 2012a, b, 2013, 2014; Stoddard et al. 2008; Wong et al. 2014; Yang et al. 2015), the mono-like wafers essentially disappeared from the market after 2012. The Emergence of HP mc-Si Although high-quality ingots have been demonstrated for both mono-like and dendritic casting techniques, the multiplication and propagation of dislocation clus- ters due to thermal stress are still very difﬁcult to control during crystal growth, especially for industrial-scale production. As a result, the solar cells fabricated from the wafers grown by both techniques have a very wide distribution in the conversion efﬁciency, and the low-efﬁciency tail in the distribution causes signiﬁcant yield loss in the cell production. During the development of the dendritic casting technique, Lans group found that the control of undercooling was also not trivial. The thick quartz crucible wall (30 mm) in production made the heat extraction from the crucible bottom much less effective. Moreover, the undercooling was sensitive to the silicon nitride coating as well. On the other hand, even large dendrites could be induced, massive dislocation clusters still appeared afterward due to thermal stress (Lan et al. 2012a, b; Yang et al. 2015). As the defect clusters appeared, they multiplied and propagated, so that the upper part of the ingot still had poor quality, 7 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High. . . 177 i.e., low minority lifetime. Surprisingly, they occasionally induced small grains by controlling the undercooling, and the ingot grown from the small grains turned out to have a much better uniformity (Yang et al. 2015). The defect multiplication and propagation were signiﬁcantly mitigated. For the wafers without massive dislocation clusters, they also noticed that the correlation between efﬁciency and grain size was small. This indicated that the GBs were not crucial to the wafer performance. The Growth of HP mc-Si To implement the small grain growth, at the beginning Lans group cut off the bottom part of the small-grain ingot and reused it as the seeds for the next run. However, the bottom red zone increased as the seed plates were reused; in addition, the seed preparation was also tedious. Accidentally, they found that using small silicon particles as the seeds for ingot growth turned out to have a much better quality for the grown ingot (Lan et al. 2014). Especially, during that period of time, low-cost granular silicon was available from the downgrade product of the ﬂuidized-bed polysilicon. Different particle sizes were tested, but the size ranging from 2 to 5 mm was considered for production; the smaller particles could be easily contam- inated due the larger speciﬁc surface area. They referred this seed layer for small grains as the incubation layer, as illustrated in Fig. 1c, and the growth of such small- grain ingots as the HP mc-Si technology. The use of nucleation agents was also found useful, and it will be discussed shortly. Using silicon particles was very robust in production in terms of ingot quality, but the melting stage required more care to keep a ﬂat melting interface and a thin remaining seed layer. The red zone, the low-lifetime area due to the impurity diffusion from the crucible and the contami- nated seeds, above the seed layer was found to be proportional to the remaining thickness of the seed layer. Surprisingly, in the HP mc-Si wafers, the percentage of noncoherent or random GBs was unprecedentedly high, more than 70%. However, the solar cell performance was signiﬁcantly improved, especially the efﬁciency distribution was very narrow. The appearance of the conventional and HP mc-Si wafers are shown in Fig. 2a, b, respectively. As shown in Fig. 2a, the conventional one has large but nonuniform grains, and more importantly it contains many twins. On the other hand, the HP mc-Si wafer has uniform and small grains with many random GBs. Nevertheless, the grain structure is hardly visible from the appearance of the solar cell due to the isotropic acid texturing and antireﬂection coating, as shown in Fig. 2c. The adoption of HP mc-Si using silicon particles as the seeds was rather quick in industry. One of the major reasons was that the switch from the growth of mono-like to mc-Si ingots was straightforward; both required the control of seed melting. The experimental results of HP mc-Si were ﬁrst presented by Prof. Lan in the 5th International Workshop on Crystal Growth Technology in June of 2011 (Lan 2011a; Lan et al. 2013), and later in the 5th International Workshop on Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells held in Boston in October (Lan 2011b). The sample wafers were also sent to Solarworld for testing right after the Boston conference, and the feedback was 178 C. W. Lan excellent. The patent for such grain structures in the ingot and the wafer was ﬁled in 2011 and ﬁrst granted in 2014 (Lan et al. 2014); both silicon and nonsilicon particle seeds were used for ingot growth in the illustrated examples. After this ﬁnding, different approaches for getting such a grain structure have been explored and reported (Zhu et al. 2014; Wong et al. 2014a; Lan et al. 2016a, b; Zhang et al. 2016). Figure 3a shows the comparison of HP mc-Si and conventional mc-Si. The lifetime mappings of both ingots are shown in Fig. 3a, where the HP mc-Si ingot was grown from small silicon particles (3  5 mm in size) (Lan et al. 2016b). The effect of particle size will be discussed shortly; however, the grains nucleated from the silicon particles depended on the microstructure of the seed materials, not the apparent size of the seeds. As shown, as compared with the conventional mc-Si ingot, the lifetime of HP mc-Si was very uniform; the low-lifetime areas due to the dislocation clusters were signiﬁ- cantly reduced. Figure 3b shows the comparison of grain structures of the wafers at the top and bottom portions of the ingots. For HP mc-Si, the grains near the bottom part of the ingot were small and uniform. On the contrary, the grains were large but un-uniform in the conventional mc-Si. In general, during ingot growth the grain size increased with the increasing ingot height for both growth, but sometimes the grain size decreased in the conventional mc-Si due to the nucleation of new grains from grits, subgrains, or twining (Lan et al. 2013; Wong et al. 2014a). More importantly, as shown by the EPD mappings in Fig. 3c, in contrast to the conventional mc-Si, the high-EPD areas (EPD  105/cm2) in HP mc-Si were much smaller and they were conﬁned in the small grains. Because the columnar grain growth in HP mc-Si, the propagation of dislocation clusters from the bottom to the top was easily blocked by the random GBs. Furthermore, the defected grains tended to be softer, due to the plastic deformation assisted by dislocations, and they were easily overgrown or squeezed by others (Lan et al. 2012b; Yang et al. 2015). As will be discussed shortly, the large amount of random GBs seems to be quite effective in relaxing the thermal stress, presumably due Fig. 2 (a) A typical conventional multicrystalline silicon wafer (156  156 mm) having large grains and twin boundaries; (b) a typical high-performance multicrystalline silicon wafer having uniform small grains and many random GBs; (c) a typical multicrystalline silicon solar cell with four bus bars 7 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High. . . 179 to the sliding nature of the amorphous layer on the GBs (Lan et al. 2012b; Stokkan et al. 2014; Yang et al. 2015). The grain size indeed plays a key factor in the growth of the defects. Lans group also conducted a G5 experiment by putting several sc-Si chunks at different posi- tions of the crucible along with the small silicon particles as the seeds, as shown in Fig. 4 (Lan et al. 2016b). The bricks were numbered by alphabets row by row as shown on the left of Fig. 4a, so that bricks C and F were next to the crucible wall and brick I was one brick away from the wall. The grain structures are shown in Fig. 4a. As shown in all cases, the big grains were gradually overgrown by the small grains from different directions; the areas of the chunk seeds are indicated by the red dashed-boxes. For silicon, it expands as it solidiﬁes, so that the grains from the big chunks could be easily overgrown by the small grains. However, for brick F, some grains were grown from the crucible wall due to the slightly concave growth front near the wall. The resulted EPD mappings corresponding to the grain structure are shown in Fig. 4b. Interestingly, as shown, even though the grain size became uniform near the top of the ingot, the high EPD areas, inside the red dashed-boxes, seemed to correspond to the initial chunk seeds very well. The case for brick F was slightly affected by the grains grown from the wall. Because the new born grains from the wall had the lower EPD than the old grains, the high EPD area for brick F was slightly smaller than the original chunk size. The big grains from the chunk seeds being overgrown by the neighbor grains is often observed in mono-like growth. Again, it is presumed that during grain growth each grain expands as it Fig. 3 Comparison of (a) ingot lifetime mapping; (b) grains and (c) EPD mapping at ingot bottom and top for conventional (top) and HP mc-Si; the ingot width in (a) is 780 mm and wafer size in (b) and (c) is 156  156 mm (Lan et al. (2016b) with permission of Elsevier) 180 C. W. Lan solidiﬁes; the more crowded columnar grains tend to grow outwards because they have more random orientations. Similarly, the weaker grains due to more disloca- tions for plastic deformation are overgrown by the stronger ones. The Performance of HP mc-Si With the emergence of HP mc-Si in 2011, the solar cell efﬁciency has increased dramatically. As shown in Fig. 5, the biggest jump was from A+ to A3+; in fact, there was A2+ wafers in between that were the ﬁrst generation of HP mc-Si using undercooling control and reused seed plates (Lan 2011a, b); the brand name for A+- series wafers was used by SAS since 2009. Interestingly, A2+ wafers appeared in the market only for a short period time due to the lower production yield. On the other hand, A3+ wafers were from the ingot grown from silicon particle seeds (Lan et al. 2012a, 2014), and this made the crystal growth much more robust both on the yield and quality. The progress to A4+ and A5+ required much better growth control including the hot zone, as well as the improvement of crucible/coating purity (Lan et al. 2016a, b; Yang et al. 2015). Nowadays, the average efﬁciency in production is about 18.3%, and the best could reach 18.5%, based on the back surface ﬁeld (BSF) cell structure. If the passivated emitter and rear cell (PERC) structure is used, using alumina back surface passivation, an average efﬁciency up to 19.6% in production has been reached (Lan et al. 2016b). Some companies, such as REC and Trina, also reported an efﬁciency of more than 20% in their production line, while the champion cell recently reported by Jinko Solar was up to 21.63% using HP mc-Si wafers (156  156 mm). For these cells, reactive ion etching (RIE) was used for texturing, 1 mm A F K P U W X Y Z Q S T Y L M N O G H I J B C D E C F a b I 103 mm 207.5 mm 1 mm 103 mm 207.5 mm Fig. 4 (a) Grain growth from different seeds; (b) EPD mapping of the wafers from different ingot positions; the red dashed-boxes indicate the area of the chunk seeds at the crucible bottom (Lan et al. (2016b) with permission of Elsevier). The positions of bricks C, F, and I are indicated on the left of (a). The numbers on the top of the ﬁgures indicate the positions of the wafers in the bricks from the bottom to the top 7 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High. . . 181 i.e., the so-called black silicon, instead of the traditional isotropic acidic etching. In addition, these wafers were also cut by diamond wire, so that the cutting damage was much less and the backside polishing was much easier for passivation. Furthermore, from the recent investigation by Sio and Macdonald (2016), as shown in Fig. 6, the recombination activity of the GBs in HP mc-Si wafers turned out to be very low (the recombination velocity was about 200 cm/s) as compared with that in the traditional mc-Si wafers (1000 cm/s). The reason for the low recombi- nation activity at the GBs for HP mc-Si remains unknown and needs further investigation. Moreover, the gettering efﬁcacy of the HP mc-Si wafers was much higher than the convectional mc-Si wafers as well (Castellanos et al. 2016). In general, the lifetime could be easily enhanced by gettering for HP mc-Si wafers, but the lifetime often deteriorated for the conventional ones. The main reason was believed to be the lower dislocation clusters to trap the metals in the HP mc-Si, so that the gettering could be more efﬁcient. The gettering efﬁcacy is very important to Fig. 5 Progress of solar cell efﬁciency using HP-mc Si wafers for BSF and PERC cells; A+ is not HP mc-Si Fig. 6 Variation of surface recombination activity of p-type mc-Si, p-type HP mc-Si, and n-type mc-Si wafers after gettering, hydrogenation, and both treatments (Sio and Macdonald (2016) with permission of Elsevier) 182 C. W. Lan enhance the lifetime of the wafer in the emitter formation during solar cell produc- tion. The higher wafer lifetime gives the higher solar cell efﬁciency. Therefore, HP mc-Si has not only the better uniformity and production yield, but also the better solar cell performance owing to its better gettering efﬁcacy and lower GB activities. Recently, Lan et al. (2016b) also grew G6 n-type HP mc-Si, and the lifetime of the wafers before and after phosphorous gettering from the center brick was shown in Fig. 7. As shown, the best lifetime could be increased to 1 ms after gettering. In fact, after hydrogenation, the best lifetime was further increased to above 2 ms (Phang et al. 2016). Although boron-gettering was found not effective, the additional phosphorous gettering and hydrogen passivation were found effective in gaining the lifetime. This indicates that N-type HP mc-Si is also a potential material for high- efﬁciency solar cells based on the lifetime results (Phang et al. 2016). Recently, Schubert et al. (2016) further reported that the simulated solar cell efﬁciency was up to 22% for this material. Growth of HP mc-Si Without Seeding In addition to the use of silicon particles for seeding, using nucleation agent for getting small grains could be useful as well (Lan et al. 2016a, b; Wong et al. 2014b; Zhang et al. 2016). A few nucleation coatings have been considered including silica, silicon nitride, and their mixtures with silicon particles (Lan et al. 2016a), and some have been adopted in production. Figure 8a shows an example of using a Si3N4/Si nucleation agent; the agent was paint on the left part of a Si3 N 4-coated quartz crucible. The grain structures grown from the coating are shown in Fig. 8b. As shown, uniform small grains could be early nucleated from the nucleation agent. Because the thickness of the nucleation agent coating was only 500 μ, the thermal condition in the crucible bottom for different coatings should be similar. The roughness due to the voids occupied by silicon might be key factor for the nucleation of small grains. Recently, Kupka et al. (2016) used SiO2 and SiC particles with different particle sizes for the nucleation agents. They also had a similar observation Fig. 7 Maximum minority lifetime distribution of n-type HP mc-Si wafers from a G6 ingot (P/Ga co-doped) before and after P-gettering (Lan et al. (2016b) with permission of Elsevier) 7 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High. . . 183 that the grains nucleated from the coating decreased with the increasing roughness. Therefore, the small and uniform grains could be induced by the nucleation agent; however, the portion of the random GBs usually was not as high as that from the silicon particle seeding. Figure 9 shows the comparison of the columnar growth and the lifetime mapping of a brick in a G5 growth obtained by from two different seeding approaches; silica (0.1 mm in size) was used as the nucleation agent for Fig. 9b. As shown, the columnar grains from both seeding methods were very similar. Both methods had good uniformity in the lifetime mappings. The major difference was in the thickness of the bottom red zone. Using the nucleation agent signiﬁcantly reduced the red zone thickness. As a result, the growth yield was increased. Nevertheless, as compared with the silicon seeding, the initial percentage Fig. 8 An example of nucleation agent for grain control: (a) the additional Si3N4/Si coating on the left bottom of the Si3N4-coated quartz crucible; (b) the grain structures; the dashed-line indicates the boundary of the nucleation agent coating Fig. 9 Grains and lifetime time of the ingots from (a) seeded growth; (b) the silica nucleation agent; the thinner bottom red zone in (b) could be seen (Lan et al. (2016b) with permission of Elsevier) 184 C. W. Lan of non-Σ or random GBs (50%) of the ingot was found lower for using the silica nucleation agent. Kupka et al. (2016) also observed similar results, especially for SiC particles. They observed that although small grains could be initiated from SiC particles, the fraction of random GBs was not high; still many Σ3 GBs appeared during nucleation. On the other hand, the silica nucleation layer gave the grain structures much closer to HP mc-Si, i.e., small grains with a high fraction of random GBs. In addition, the silica particles used previously were presumed to be in the β-cristobalite phase during nucleation. Moreover, increasing temperature gradients was found easier to get smaller grains from the nucleation; however, the fraction of Σ3 GBs depended on the coatings. Magnetic stirring could also be used, e.g., by REC Inc. in Singapore. Nowadays, the quality and thus the solar cell performance of the ingot grown from the nucleation agent were still found slightly inferior to that from the silicon particles, even through several companies claimed that they could grow high quality HP mc-Si without using silicon particle seeds. Therefore, this indicated that the amount of random GBs would be more crucial for stress relaxation and thus defect reduction, instead of just the small grains. This observation was further conﬁrmed by Reimann et al. in their recent experiments (2016). They conducted small ingot growth using different seeding materials. As shown in Fig. 10, the longer random GB length fraction from the seeds led to the smaller area of high EPD clusters in the grown ingot. More importantly, the seed materials played a crucial role. For example, if the seeds were from Siemens feedstock or ﬂuidized-bed-reactor, which was mc-Si with very small grains, the seed size had little effect on the grown grain size and the length fraction of random GBs (Reimann et al. 2016). In other words, to initial the grain structures for Fig. 10 Area fraction of EPD  105 cm2 versus the random grain boundary length fraction for all performed experiments for the 25 mm cut; seeds were from single crystalline crushed (SCC), ﬂuidized-bed-reactor (FBR) and Siemens (SIE) feedstock; the conventional mc-Si was included for comparison (Reimann et al. (2016) with permission of Elsevier) 7 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High. . . 185 HP mc-Si, the grain structures were more important than the apparent size for the seed materials. The Properties of HP mc-Si Figure 11 summaries the typical grain structures (a), crystallographic orientations and GB types (c) of the wafers taken from different positions of a HP mc-Si ingot seeded by silicon particles (Lan et al. 2016c). The statistics in Figs. 11b and 6c was obtained from Fig. 11a. As shown in Fig. 11b, the grain orientations were mainly located in the low-energy planes, such as (111) and (112). Other orientations such as and (115) and (313) had nontrivial portions and this might be generated due to twining (Wong et al. 2014a). More importantly, as shown in Fig. 11c, the percentage of the non-Σ or random GBs at the lower part of the ingot was greater than 70%. Even in the top portion of the ingot, the percentage of the random GBs was also more than 60%. Wong et al. (2014a) did a detailed analysis of the grain structures developed from small silicon beads (0.9 mm in diameter), and they also found that the lowest-energy orientation, i.e., (111) tended to dominate during grain competition. However, the twining from the tri-junctions generated new grains with different orientations (Wong et al. 2014a); this might be the reason for more (112) orientation at the top ingot. Indeed, the (111)- or (112)-dominated orientations and the high fraction of Fig. 11 Development of (a) grain structures; (b) crystallographic orientations; and (c) GB types along the height of an HP mc-Si ingot. The orientations and GB types were obtained from the wafers at different heights of the central brick of the ingot (Lan et al. (2016b) with permission of Elsevier) 186 C. W. Lan random GBs are the typical characteristics nowadays in commercial HP mc-Si wafers. The high-percentage of the random GBs shown in Fig. 11c upsets the previous understanding for high quality mc-Si wafers; however, they played a crucial role in the reduction of dislocation clusters, especially for industrial produc- tion. Before Lans group reported this ﬁnding (Lan et al. 2012a, b, 2014; Yang et al. 2015), most people believed that twins or Σ3 GBs were needed for better lifetime (Fujiwara et al. 2006; Li et al. 2011, 2012; Nakajima et al. 2010a, b; Wang et al. 2009; Yeh et al. 2010), which was the core concept of the dendritic casting approach. In fact, if the wafers from the dendritic casting are carefully examined, one could ﬁnd that the twin areas often have very few defects (Li et al. 2012; Ryningen et al. 2011); however, this is based on the condition without massive dislocation clusters. During the growth of large ingot, the relaxation of thermal stress for reducing the multipli- cation of dislocation clusters is crucial, and the large amount of random GBs in HP mc-Si plays a critical role. Outlook for HP mc-Si Although the growth of HP mc-Si having low defects and good uniformity is rather robust, especially seeded with silicon particles, the random GBs decrease and defects increase during crystal growth. The defect growth is strongly affected by the evolution of grain structures, and the grain growth, which leads to the reduction of random GBs, is very important. Lehmann et al. (2016) analyzed HP and conven- tional mc-Si wafers from various companies, as shown in Fig. 12. They found that indeed the GB types were very different as shown in Fig. 12a. The HP mc-Si in general had more than 60% of random GBs, while the conventional one had high percentage of Σ3 GBs. However, as shown in Fig. 12b, their difference became smaller near the top of the ingots due to grain growth and the decrease of random Fig. 12 Comparison of GB types in HP and conventional mc-Si at the bottom (a) and the top (b) of the ingots from different suppliers (Lehmann et al. (2016) with permission of Elsevier) 7 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High. . . 187 GBs, as well as the increase of Σ3 GBs. As a result, if the ingot grows taller, there are less random GBs for stress relaxation, so that the dislocation clusters even in HP mc-Si will become more problematic. In fact, Wong et al. (2014a) was the ﬁrst to perform detailed experiments to investigate the structure evolution of HP mc-Si in a lab-scale furnace for different growth speeds ranging from 10 to 200 mm/h. They analyzed the grain structures of the wafers cut from the ingot by using electron backscattered diffraction (EBSD). For grain growth, some of their results are shown in Fig. 13a for illustration. In general, the low-energy (111) grain became dominant during grain coarsening due to the reduction of overall interfacial energy. The random GBs decreased as grains coarsened. On the other hand, as shown in Fig. 13b, they also found that Σ3 GBs increased due to twining (Wong et al. 2014a; Duffar and Nadri 2010) and decreased due to the blocking by the random GBs. As shown, the new grain nucleated from the tri-junction, and this twining process could repeat based on the twining probability (Duffar and Nadri 2010). Lin and Lan (2017) recently found that the GB type at the faceted groove, i.e., tri-junction, between grains played a crucial role in reducing the nucleation barrier of twining. With a random GB, the twining probability could be greater than 106 at an undercooling of 0.5 K, which gave a twin spacing about 300 μm. The reduction of random GBs and the generation of twin boundaries eventually tended to be close. As a result, near the top of the small ingots, the fraction of both GBs became comparable. Nevertheless, because twining became Fig. 13 (a) Grain coarsening (left ﬁgures are EBSD and right ﬁgure are GBs); (b) nucleation of twins and their movement; twin boundary was blocked by the random GBs (from wafers 4 to 6). The twin nucleation from the faceted groove at tri-junction is illustrated on the right (Wong et al. (2014a) with permission of Elsevier) 188 C. W. Lan more frequent with the increasing speed or undercooling, the generation of Σ3 GBs and the reduction of random GBs became faster as the growth speed increased. Therefore, the control of grain growth and twining is crucial to HP mc-Si for taller ingots. Nowadays, even for the normal ingot height, e.g., 35 cm in G6, the high defect density near the top of the ingot for HP mc-Si is still problematic due to the reduction of random GBs. In fact, if one carefully examines the amount of random GBs near the top ingots in (Lehmann et al. 2016), it is clear that some ingots could still keep a high percentage of random GBs. This indicates that the growth conditions could be optimized for HP mc-Si in practice. Recently, Trempa et al. (2017) compared the grain structures and defects of the conventional and HP mc-Si ingots from eight successive growths to simulate the extraordinary ingot height of 710 mm. They found that the grain structures and the defects of both ingots became similar after 350 mm. Especially, as shown in Fig. 14 for the comparison of defects and recombination area fraction for convectional and HP mc-Si in their study (Trempa et al. 2017). In other words, the advantage of HP mc-Si is limited to the ﬁrst grown 350 mm of the ingot. In addition to the dislocation clusters, the control of impurities is also important to ingot quality. The back diffusion of the metals from the silicon seeds increases the red zone and deteriorates the quality of bottom ingot, even though the EPD is the lowest there. Therefore, to further improve HP mc-Si, the reduction of seed layer thickness and the improvement of crucible/coating purity would be important. Recently, the crucibles coated with high purity silica are available in the market; Fig. 14 Recombination active area fraction versus total ingot height for the 710 mm G1 conven- tional ingot (red circles) and the 710 mm G1 HP mc-Si (HPM) ingot (green squares). Additionally, the values for a 300 mm industrial HPM ingot (violet triangles) are shown. On the sides, PL images of both 710 mm G1 ingots are shown for 80 mm and 710 mm total ingot height (Trempa et al. (2017) with permission of Elsevier) 7 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High. . . 189 using a diffusion barrier could also be feasible (Hsieh et al. 2014). Eventually, if the seeding layer is replaced by simple coating, while keeping small grains and high fraction of random GBs after nucleation, both quality and yield of HP mc-Si could be improved. Conclusion Nowadays, nearly 70% of solar cells are made from mc-Si wafers, and most of them are produced from the HP casting method. The method is very robust, so that it has been widely adopted by industry. In addition to the excellent ingot quality, the yield of the HP casting is also very high due to the much less massive propagation of dislocation clusters. The excellent quality of the HP mc-Si has been reﬂected on the signiﬁcant progress of the solar cell efﬁciency in the recent years. Besides the p-type champion cell with an efﬁciency higher than 21.23% reported by Trina Solar Inc., the very recent world record (21.9%) on the n-type HP mc-Si solar cell has been made by Fraunhofer ISE in early 2007. Nevertheless, to compete with the mono- crystalline silicon solar cells, further improvement of the ingot quality by HP casting can be expected. Cross-References Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method Acknowledgments CWL is grateful for the generous support by the Ministry of Science and Technology of Taiwan, National Taiwan University, and SAS. References S. Castellanos, K.E. Ekstrøm, A. Autruffe, M.A. Jensen, A.E. Morishige, J. Hofstetter, P. Yen, B. Lai, G. Stokkan, C. del Canizo, T. Buonassisi, IEEE J. Photovolt. 6, 632 (2016) T. Duffar, A. Nadri, Scr. Mater. 62, 955 (2010) Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems, ISE, Freiburg, Photovoltaics Report. http://www.ise. fraunhofer.de. Accessed 17 Nov 2016 K. Fujiwara, W. Pan, K. Sawada, M. Tokairin, N. Usami, Y. Nose, A. Nomura, T. Shishido, K. Nakajima, J. Cryst. Growth 292, 282 (2006) C.C. Hsieh, A. Lan, C. Hsu, C.W. Lan, J. Cryst. Growth 401, 727 (2014) C.P. Khattak, F. Schmid, in Silicon Processing for Photovoltaics II, ed. by C. P. Khattak, K. V. Ravi (Elsevier Science Publishers, North Holland, 1987), p. 153 I. Kupka, C. Reimann, T. Lehmann, D. Oriwol, F. Kropfgans, J. Friedrich, in Abstracts of Technical Digest of the 18th International Conference on Crystal Growth and Epitaxy, Nogoya, 712 Aug 2016 C.W. Lan, in Abstracts of the 5th International Workshop on Crystal Growth Technology, Berlin, 2630 June 2011a C. W. Lan, in Abstracts of the 5th International Workshop on Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells, Boston, 13 Nov 2011b 190 C. W. Lan C.W. Lan, W.C. Lan, T.F. Li, A. Yu, Y.M. Yang, C. Hsu, B. Hsu, A. Yang, From A+ to A+++, in Abstracts of the 22nd Workshop on Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells & Modules: Materials and Processes, Vail, 2225 July 2012a C.W. Lan, Y.M. Yang, A. Yu, B. Hsu, A. Yang, in Abstracts of the 27th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference (27th EU PVSEC), Frankfurt, 2428 Sept 2012b C.W. Lan, W.C. Lan, T.F. Li, A. Yu, Y.M. Yang, C. Hsu, B. Hsu, A. Yang, J. Cryst. Growth 360, 68 (2013) C.W. Lan, W.H. Yu, Y.M. Yang, H.S. Chou, C.L. Hsu, W.C. Hsu, TW Patent I452185(B), 11 Sept 2014 C.W. Lan, C. Chuck, K. Nakajima, in Handbook of Crystal Growth 2A: Bulk Crystal Growth: Basic Techniques, 2nd edn., ed. by P. Rudolph (Elsevier Science Publishers, Amsterdam, 2015), p. 373 C.W. Lan, Y.M. Yang, A. Yu, Y.C. Wu, B. Hsu, W.C. Hsu, A. Yang, Solid State Phenom. 242, 21 (2016a) C.W. Lan, A. Lan, C.F. Yang, H.P. Hsu, M. Yang, A. Yu, B. Hsu, W.C. Hsu, A. Yang, J. Cryst. Growth, in press (2016b), http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S002202481630 6728. Accessed 28 Oct 2016 C.W. Lan, C.F. Yang, A. Lan, M. Yang, A. Yu, H.P. Hsu, B. Hsu, C. Hsu, Cryst. Eng. Comm. 18, 1474 (2016c) T. Lehmann, C. Reimann, E. Meissner, J. Friedrich, Acta Mater. 106, 98 (2016) T.F. Li, K.M. Yeh, W.C. Hsu, C.W. Lan, J. Cryst. Growth 318, 219 (2011) T.F. Li, H.C. Huang, H.W. Tsai, A. Lan, C. Hsu, C.W. Lan, J. Cryst. Growth 340, 202 (2012) H.K. Lin, C.W. Lan, Acta Mater. 131, 1 (2017) P.V. Magazine, Sep 2012, pp. 9499. http://www.pv-magazine.com K. Nakajima, K. Kutsukake, K. Fujiwara, N. Usami, S. Ono, I. Yamasaki, in Abstracts of the 35th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, Honolulu, 2025 June 2010a K. Nakajima, K. Kutsukake, K. Fujiwara, N. Usami, S. Ono, I. Yamasaki, in Abstracts of the 25th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition (25th EU PVSEC), The 5th World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion (WCPEC-5), Spain, 69 Sep 2010b S. P. Phang, H. C. Sio, C.F. Yang, C.W. Lan, Y.M. Yang, A. Yu, B. Hsu, C. Hsu, D. Macdonald, in Abstracts of the 26th Photovoltaics Science and Engineering Conference (PVSEC-26), Singa- pore, 2428 Oct 2016 C. Reimann, M. Trempa, T. Lehmann, K. Rosshirt, J. Stenzenberger, J. Friedrich, K. Hesse, E. Dornberger, J. Cryst. Growth 434, 88 (2016) B. Ryningen, G. Stokkan, M. Kivambe, T. Ervik, O. Lohne, Acta Mater. 59, 7703 (2011) M. Schubert, F. Schindler, J. Schön, W. Kwapil, B. Michl, J. Benick, in Abstracts of the 9th International Workshop on Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells, Tempe, Arizona, 1012 Oct 2016 H.C. Sio, D. Macdonald, Sol. Energ. Mat. Sol. Cells 144, 339 (2016) N. Stoddard, BP Corp., WO Patent 2007084936, A2 July 2007 N. Stoddard, B. Wu, I. Witting, M. Wagener, Y. Park, G. Rozgonyi, R. Clark, Solid State Phenom. 1, 131 (2008) G. Stokkan, Y. Hu, O. Mjos, M. Juel, Sol. Energ. Mat. Sol. Cells 130, 679 (2014) M. Trempa, I. Kupka, C. Kranert, T. Lehmann, C. Reimann, J. Friedrich, J. Cryst. Growth 459, 6775 (2017) T.Y. Wang, S.L. Hsu, C.C. Fei, K.M. Yei, W.C. Hsu, C.W. Lan, J. Cryst. Growth 311, 263 (2009) Y.T. Wong, C. Hsu, C.W. Lan, J. Cryst. Growth 387, 59 (2014a) Y.T. Wong, C.T. Hsieh, A. Lan, C. Hsu, C.W. Lan, J. Cryst. Growth 404, 59 (2014b) Y.M. Yang, A. Yu, B. Hsu, W.C. Hsu, A. Yang, C.W. Lan, Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 23, 340 (2015) K.M. Yeh, C.K. Hseih, W.C. Hsu, C.W. Lan, Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 18, 265 (2010) H. Zhang, D. You, C. Huang, Y. Wu, Y. Xu, P. Wu, J. Cryst. Growth 435, 91 (2016) D. Zhu, L. Ming, M. Huang, Z. Zhang, X. Huang, J. Cryst. Growth 386, 52 (2014) 7 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High. . . 191 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method 8 Kozo Fujiwara Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 194 Development of the Dendritic Cast Method .................................................... 195 In Situ Observation of the Growth of the Si Dendrite Crystal ............................. 195 Growth Concept of the Dendritic Cast Method ............................................. 197 Conditions for Growing a Dendrite Crystal in Si Melt ..................................... 198 Mc-Si Ingot Grown by the Dendritic Cast Method ............................................. 203 Growth of a Small Size mc-Si Ingot ........................................................ 203 Improvement of the Dendritic Cast Method ................................................ 205 Problems and Future Developments of the Dendritic Cast Method ........................... 208 Concluding Remarks ............................................................................ 213 Cross-References ................................................................................ 213 References ....................................................................................... 214 Abstract This chapter introduces the dendritic cast method which allows us to obtain multicrystalline silicon ingot containing large-size crystal grains with speciﬁc orientations. The growth of dendrite crystals along the bottom wall of crucible in the initial stage of casting is crucial in this method. First, the features of Si dendrite crystals including the conditions for initiating dendrite growth will be explained following the concept of the dendritic cast method. The parallel twin formation and undercooling, those are prerequisites for the growth of the dendrite crystal, will be considered fundamentally. Next, experimental results of the growth of multicrystalline silicon ingots by the dendritic cast method will be summarized. The idea to control the dendrite growth will be described. Finally, problems and the future development of this method will be K. Fujiwara (*) Institute for Materials Research, Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan e-mail: kozo@imr.tohoku.ac.jp  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_33 193 considered. A nonwetting dendritic cast method, which is a growth concept for the reduction of generation of dislocation and impurity during casting, will be introduced. Keywords Cast method  Silicon  Dendrite growth  Crystal/melt interface  Undercooling  Twin boundary Introduction At present, control of grain structures including grain size, grain orientation, grain boundary (see Chap. 19, Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon), twin boundary, dislocation (see Chap. 18, Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Disloca- tions), subgrain boundary, and impurity (see Chaps. 14, Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon, and 15, Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon) is the common recognition in the ﬁeld of crystal growth of multicrystalline silicon (mc-Si) ingot for solar cells. The proposal of the dendritic cast method became the trigger to share this recognition in researchers widely. In this chapter, the concept and features of dendritic cast method will be described. The dendritic cast method was proposed in 2006 on publications (Fujiwara et al. 2006a, b). Since the late 1970s (Ciszek et al. 1979), a mc-Si ingot for solar cells is grown by directional solidiﬁcation method, which is usually called cast method. The quality of the ingot has been improved until now although there is still room for further improvement. Before the proposal of the dendritic cast method, researchers attempted to improve the quality of mc-Si ingot by the control of growth conditions, such as thermal history, growth rate, purity of feedstock, or materials of crucible. In the dendritic cast method, the quality of mc-Si ingot is improved by controlling grain structures. The key point is the control of dendrite crystals in the initial stage of casting, which will play a role of seed crystal during directional solidiﬁcation. The concept of the dendritic cast method was born from the fundamental study of the crystal growth mechanisms of Si, as explained below. In the early 2000s, Nakajimas group started to develop a crystal growth tech- nology for obtaining a structure-controlled mc-Si ingot, aiming to realize an ideal mc-Si ingot for solar cells, as schematically shown in Fig. 1. However, it was not well understood how to control the complicated grain structure in mc-Si ingot which contains variety types of defects including grain boundary, twin boundary, disloca- tion, subgrain boundary, and metallic impurity. Therefore, the study of crystal growth mechanisms for obtaining fundamental understandings was started by the development of an in situ observation technique (Fujiwara et al. 2002, 2004). It was found that the dendrite growth was promoted in a melt even at a low degree of undercooling, and also found that the growth velocity of the dendrite crystal was much faster than that of the normal crystal grain (Fujiwara et al. 2006a). Further- more, it was well known that the growth orientation of the dendrite was limited to 194 K. Fujiwara speciﬁc orientations (Billig 1955; Bennett and Longini 1959; Hamilton and Seidensticker 1960; Wagner 1960; Albon and Owen 1963; OHara and Bennett 1964; Barrett et al. 1971; Lau and Kui 1991; Li and Herlach 1996; Nagashio and Kuribayashi 2005). From those fundamental understanding of the dendrite growth of Si, it was considered that if one could control the dendrite growth at the initial stage of casting, a mc-Si ingot with large-size oriented crystal grains would be produced. In this chapter, ﬁrst, the concept of the dendritic cast method and the features of dendrite crystal of Si will be explained. Next, mc-Si ingots grown by this method will be shown. Finally, the remained problems and future development of the dendritic cast method will be discussed. Development of the Dendritic Cast Method In Situ Observation of the Growth of the Si Dendrite Crystal Here, the features of dendrite crystals of Si will be explained. An in situ observation system consisting of a furnace and a microscope (Fig. 2) was developed for the observations of crystal/melt interface of Si (Fujiwara et al. 2004). Si raw materials were set in a fused silica crucible with the size of 10  20  10 mm and melted in the furnace. The temperature gradient in the furnace could be controlled by controlling the power of two zone heaters. Awater cooled tube was inserted from one side of the sample, and thus, the temperature gradient in the sample can be reached around 9 K/ mm. Such a temperature gradient was kept during a cooling process to observe a crystal/melt interface during directional solidiﬁcation. The growth velocity was changed by controlling the cooling rate. When the crystal grows at low growth velocity, the crystal melt interface was kept planar shape, as shown in Fig. 3a. On the other hand, dendrite growth was initiated from a zigzag faceted interface at higher growth velocity, as shown in Fig. 3b. The undercooling at the initiation of the dendrite growth was estimated to ①Large grain size (Low grain boundary density) ②Reduction of random grain boundaries ④Same grain orientation ③Low defect density (dislocation, impurity, etc.) Ideal mc-Si ingot Conventional mc-Si ingot Fig. 1 Schematic image of ideal mc-Si ingot (right) 8 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method 195 be ΔT  10 K (Fujiwara et al. 2008). The typical structure of dendrite crystal is shown in Fig. 4 (Fujiwara et al. 2007). The most important feature of the dendrite crystals of Si is the existence of parallel twin boundaries at the center part, as shown in Fig. 4. The features of dendrite crystal of Si are summarized as following (Fujiwara 2015): 1. The surface is bounded by {111} facet planes. 2. At least two parallel {111} twin boundaries exist at its center. 3. The preferential growth direction is 112 or 110 (hereafter, dendrites with these growth directions will be expressed as 112 and 110 dendrites, respectively). Nagashio and Kuribayashi reported that twin-free dendrite, which preferentially grows to the 100 direction, appeared in the highly undercooled melt, ΔT  100 K (Nagashio and Kuribayashi 2005). In the casting process of mc-Si ingot, the furnace Digital microscope 2 zone carbon heater Water cooled tube Inside of the furnace Si melt Fig. 2 In situ observation system Fig. 3 (a) Planar crystal/melt interface and (b) appearance of a dendrite growth 196 K. Fujiwara undercooling at the crystal growth is not so high, and thus the 112 and 110 dendrites usually appear. Growth Concept of the Dendritic Cast Method From the above features of dendrite crystals, it was considered that if one could control this growth mechanism in the casting, it would be able to obtain a mc-Si ingot with large-oriented crystal grains. Figure 5 shows a concept of growing a mc-Si ingot using dendrite growth in the casting. The dendrite growth is induced along the bottom wall of a crucible in the initial stage of casting by controlling the cooling conditions. To realize this process, the temperature ﬁeld in the furnace should be controlled carefully. Initial stage of casting melt melt Directional solidification Dendrite growth is promoted along the bottom wall. Polycrystalline seed with large-sized oriented grains is formed. Mc-Si ingot with large-sized oriented grains is obtained. Fig. 5 The growth concept of the dendritic cast method Fig. 4 Structure of a dendrite crystal (Fujiwara et al. 2007) 8 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method 197 Dendrite crystals can be grown only along the bottom wall of the crucible when the melt only at the bottom wall is undercooled, as shown in Fig. 6a. However, if the upper part of the melt is also in the undercooled state, the dendrite crystals can be grown not only along the bottom wall but also in the upper direction, as shown in Fig. 6b. The growth velocity of the dendrite crystal is very fast, and thus the crystal grains become very large. And, when the dendrite grows along the bottom wall of the crucible, the upper orientation of the dendrite crystal is limited to {112} or {110} ideally, and thus the oriented grain structures will be obtained in the initial stage of casting. If the dendrite crystals grew also in the upper direction in this initial stage, the grain size at the bottom part of the ingot becomes small and the grain boundary density increases. Moreover, the dendrite crystals grown in the upper direction will make a rough crystal/ melt interface, as shown in Fig. 6b, which will cause the defect generation at the crystal/ melt interface. Therefore, to obtain a high quality mc-Si ingot, the control of the dendrite growth in the initial stage is crucial. Subsequently, crystallization will be promoted in the upper direction from this bottom structure with large-size oriented grains. The concept shown in Fig. 5, which is called the dendritic cast method, does not require the use of any seeds and it was expected to be available for the growth of a large ingot by a commercial casting furnace. Needless to say, the enhancement and control of the dendrite growth at the bottom of the crucible is crucial in this method. In the next section, the conditions for promoting dendrite growth in the Si melt will be considered. Conditions for Growing a Dendrite Crystal in Si Melt Here, let us consider the conditions for the initiation of the dendrite growth. As shown in Fig. 4, a dendrite crystal of Si contains at least two parallel {111} twin a b A dendrite crystal can be grown along the bottom wall. Temperature M .P. Temperature M .P. Position Position A dendrite crystal can be grown also in the upper direction. Fig. 6 Schematic images of the growth of dendrite crystals in the initial stage of casting 198 K. Fujiwara boundaries at its center part. This means that the crystal must contain two parallel twin boundaries for the initiation of the dendrite growth. It is well known that the formation energy of Si {111} twin boundary is quite low, such as 30 mJ/m2 (Kohyama et al. 1986). Therefore, twin boundaries are often observed in a mc-Si ingot after solidiﬁcation. It seems that a twin boundary is formed by many reasons, such as the stress from the crucible and/or the thermal stress during cooling process and so on. However, here, the consideration of the parallel twin formation in a crystal during melt growth process is required. To obtain information on the parallel twin formation during melt growth process, the crystal growth behavior of dendrites was directly observed by using an in situ observation system (Fujiwara et al. 2007). In that study, morphological change of the crystal/melt interface was observed. A planar crystal/melt interface changed to a zigzag faceted interface with decreasing melt temperature, and then, a dendrite crystal grew from a part of the faceted interface, as shown in Fig. 7. It was noted that the direction of growth of the dendrite crystal was parallel to the {111} facet plane on a zigzag faceted interface, as shown in Fig. 6 (the right image). This means that the parallel twins at the center of the dendrite crystal were formed parallel to the {111} facet plane on the zigzag faceted interface. From this experimental facts, one model for the parallel twin formation was considered, as shown in Fig. 8 (Fujiwara et al. 2007). Since the growth interface is faceted (zigzag shape) at a high growth velocity, crystal growth is always promoted on the {111} facet planes. If an atom attaches on a facet plane with a twin relationship, a layer that maintains the twin relationship is formed on the facet plane after lateral growth, and then one twin boundary is generated on the layer, as shown in Fig. 8(2). It is expected that the atoms are often attached on the {111} growth plane with twin relationship because the grain boundary energy of Si {111} twin boundary is close to zero (30 mJ/m2). Such twin conﬁguration of adatoms may be rearranged so that adatoms obey the epitaxial conﬁguration at the crystal surface to minimize the Gibbs free energy of the system when the driving force for crystallization is very low at near equilibrium condition. On the other hand, when the driving force is large, high undercooling, the growth of the layer with twin relationship should be promoted because of the faster growth kinetics and the larger energy gain due to the crystallization. Continuing the crystal growth in the lateral- growth mode (Fig. 8(3)), the another twin boundary will form parallel to the previous twin, as shown in Fig. 8(4). In this model, the formation of two parallel twins is 1 mm Fig. 7 Dendrite growth initiated from a part of zigzag faceted interface (Fujiwara et al. 2007) 8 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method 199 certain when one twin is formed on a facet plane at the growth surface. Here, it is found that the distance between the two parallel twin boundaries is dependent on the wavelength of the zigzag faceted interface. According to the theoretical treatment for the interface instability by Mullins and Sekerka (Mullins and Sekerka 1964), the wavelength of zigzag faceted interface decreases with increase in the growth veloc- ity, and that was conﬁrmed for the crystal/melt interface of Si by experiments (Tokairin et al. 2009; Fujiwara et al. 2011). Next, the undercooling for the growth of the dendrite crystal should be con- sidered. From the in situ observation experiments, the undercooling (ΔT) at the initiation of the growth of the dendrite crystal was estimated as ΔT  10 K (Fujiwara et al. 2008). This value of the undercooling might be changed by the design of the furnace and the temperature ﬁeld in the furnace. Now, the temper- ature ﬁeld at the initiation of the dendrite growth is discussed below. First, the case that the parallel twin boundaries are generated into a crystal by the model shown in Fig. 8 is considered. In that model, the morphological transformation of the crystal melt interface from a planar shape to a zigzag faceted shape is required for the parallel twin formation. A crystal grain born at the bottom of the crucible will grow along the bottom wall of the crucible, as schematically shown in Fig. 9 (Fujiwara et al. 2011). The crystal grain does not contain twin boundaries. It seems that a ﬂuctuation is often generated on the planar crystal/melt interface during growth. When the temperature gradient in the melt at the crystal/melt interface is positive, the crystal grows with a planar crystal/melt interface because the temperature at the top of the ﬂuctuation is higher than that at the bottom of the ﬂuctuation, that is, the growth velocity at the bottom of the ﬂuctuation is faster than that at the top part. Therefore, a zigzag faceted interface will not be established, as shown in Fig. 9a. On the other hand, under the negative Fig. 8 Model for parallel twin formation on the zigzag faceted crystal/melt interface 200 K. Fujiwara temperature gradient, the ﬂuctuation will be ampliﬁed, which leads to the forma- tion of zigzag faceted interface, as shown in Fig. 9b. In this case, the parallel twin boundaries could be formed based on the model of Fig. 8, and then, the dendrite growth will be initiated after the parallel twin formation. The temperature gradient in the melt at the crystal/melt interface is affected by the thermal ﬁeld in the ambient surrounding the crystal and the growth velocity which is related to the amount of the latent heat of crystallization. A smaller temperature gradient in the ambient requires a lower growth velocity to change the temperature gradient in the melt at the crystal/melt interface from positive to negative. Usually, in the casting furnace, the temperature gradient in the growth direction of the ingot is positive, as shown in Fig. 6. On the other hand, the temperature ﬁeld vertical to the growth direction is almost homogeneous. Therefore, when a crystal grain is born in the undercooled melt at the bottom wall of the crucible, it seems that the negative temperature gradient is easily formed in front of the crystal/melt interface because the temperature at the crystal/melt interface reaches melting temperature due to the latent heat and the melt surrounding the crystal grain is undercooled. One can easily imagine that if the melt of the upper part of the crystal grain is also Fig. 9 Crystal/melt interface under (a) positive temperature gradient and (b) negative temperature gradient when the crystal grain contains no twin boundaries (Fujiwara et al. 2011) 8 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method 201 undercooled, dendrite crystals is possible to grow to upper direction, as explained in Fig. 6b, which is not suitable for obtaining a high quality ingot. Next, in Fig. 10, we consider the case that the crystal grain originally contains parallel twin boundaries, those were formed by some kind of mechanisms except the model in Fig. 8 (Fujiwara et al. 2014). The growth velocity is roughly expressed as V  KΔT, where K and ΔT are the kinetic constant and undercooling, respectively. When the temperature gradient is positive, the undercooling at the bottom part (ΔTb) is larger than that at the top part (ΔTt) of the ﬂuctuation, ΔTt  ΔTb, as shown in Fig. 10. Therefore, the kinetic constant at the twin boundaries (Kt) must be larger than that in the area without twin boundaries (Kb), Kt  Kb, to amplify the ﬂuctuation. Actually, it seems that the crystallization is easier at the twin boundary than at the {111} ﬂat plane, as shown by atomic models in Fig. 11. When the atoms in the melt crystalize on the {111} plane, a trio of atoms is required to connect half of their bonds with each other, as shown in the left image of Fig. 11. On the other hand, a pair of atoms can satisfy this condition, as shown in the right image of Fig. 11. When the condition KtΔTt/KbΔTb  1 is satisﬁed, the dendrite growth is initiated at the parallel twin boundaries. The difference between ΔTt and ΔTb is dependent on the temperature gradient at the interface. One can predict that when the positive temperature gradient is steep, ΔTt  ΔTb, a planar interface will be maintained because the growth velocity at the bottom of the ﬂuctuation (Vb) will be larger than that at the top of the ﬂuctuation (Vt). On the other hand, under a low positive temperature gradient, the ﬂuctuation at the twin boundaries is ampliﬁed owing to the larger Kt. In this case, dendrite growth will appear at lower undercooling than in the case that crystal originally does not contain the twin boundaries (Fig. 9). melt Te T x Positive temperature gradient Vb = Kb ΔTb Vt = Kt ΔTt perturbation ΔTt ΔTb Direction of growth Twin boundaries Twin boundaries No twin boundaries Twin boundaries crystal melt Vb Vt Vb Vt mm Fig. 10 The explanation for the initiation of the dendrite growth even under the positive temper- ature gradient when the crystal grain contains twin boundaries (Fujiwara et al. 2014) 202 K. Fujiwara Mc-Si Ingot Grown by the Dendritic Cast Method Growth of a Small Size mc-Si Ingot In the earlier experiments of the dendritic cast method, mc-Si ingots were grown with a 50-mm-diameter silica crucible with Si3N4 coating. As mentioned above, the undercooling of ΔT  10 K seemed to be required to induce dendrite growth in the initial stage of directional growth (Fujiwara et al. 2006a). Therefore, the bottom of the crucible was cooled fast to induce the dendrite growth and then the crucible was pulled down at 0.2 mm/min in the temperature gradient zone of 20 K/cm. In the fast cooling process for promoting dendrite growth along the bottom wall of the crucible, the steep temperature gradient in the direction of growth of the ingot is required, as explained in Fig. 6. In addition, generally, a ﬁxed time is required until the dendrite crystals grow to cover the whole bottom wall. Another ingot was grown by simply pulling the crucible down at 0.2 mm/min in the same temperature gradient, for comparison. Figure 12a, b show the orientation maps of 15 mm2 wafers cut from the bottom, middle, and top parts of ingots grown by (a) a dendritic cast method and (b) a conventional cast method (Fujiwara et al. 2006a). Near the (112) plane was seen to occupy almost the entire surface of the wafers and large grains were observed in the bottom part to top part in wafers cut from the ingot grown by a dendritic cast method, as shown in Fig. 12a, because 110 dendrites grew along the bottom wall of the crucible in the initial stage. On the other hand, many equiaxed grains with random orientations were observed in wafers cut from the ingot grown by a conventional cast method, as shown in Fig. 12b. Figure 13a, b shows the typical properties of solar cells based on mc-Si wafers cut from the two ingots (Fujiwara et al. 2006a). A higher energy conversion efﬁciency was obtained for the Si wafer obtained by the dendritic cast method. The results in Figs. 12 and 13 show that the Fig. 11 Atomic models of crystal/melt interface of {111} plane (left) and at twin boundary 8 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method 203 50mm f 30mmH a b 111 122 15 mm 012 011 001 112 Fig. 12 Orientation maps in Si wafers cut from the ingot grown by (a) a dendritic cast method and (b) a conventional cast method (Fujiwara et al. 2006a) 40 a b 30 20 10 0 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 Jsc: 33.1 mA/cm2 Voc: 0.588 V FF: 0.731 h : 14.2 % Voltage (V) 0.5 Current density (mA/cm2) 0.6 40 30 20 10 0 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 Jsc: 31.7 mA/cm2 Voc: 0.569 V FF: 0.746 h : 13.4 % Voltage (V) 0.5 Current density (mA/cm2) 0.6 Fig. 13 I-V curves of wafers cut from the ingot grown by (a) a dendritic cast method and (b) a conventional cast method (Fujiwara et al. 2006a) 204 K. Fujiwara growth concept of the dendritic cast method is promising for obtaining a mc-Si ingot suitable for solar cells. We also investigated the effect of crucible size on solar cell properties. Figure 14 shows the energy conversion efﬁciencies of solar cells based on the mc-Si wafers cut from the ingot grown by a dendritic cast method. The diameters of the crucible used were 50 mmϕ, 80 mmϕ, and 150 mmϕ (Fujiwara et al. 2006a). Conversion efﬁciency increased with increasing crucible size. The highest efﬁciency of the solar cells was more than 16% even without a surface textural structure or hydrogen passivation during solar cell processes. For comparison, we also fabricated a solar cell based on an sc-Si wafer grown by the Czochralski method using the same solar cell process as above and obtained a conversion efﬁciency of 17%. Improvement of the Dendritic Cast Method Researchers made an effort for the improvement of the dendritic cast method for the sake of use in practical (Nakajima et al. 2009, 2010a, b, 2011; Yang et al. 2015). Solar cells based on mc-Si wafers obtained from ingots grown by the dendritic cast method were fabricated by SHARP Co (Nakajima et al. 2009, 2010a, b, 2011), and the top values of the energy conversion efﬁciency were 18.2% for Si wafer of 10  10 cm2 and 17.7% for Si wafer of 15.6  15.6 cm2. Dendritic cast method has a potential to control not only grain size and grain orientation but also grain boundary characteristics. As shown in Fig. 15, when the dendrite crystals grow to random direction at the bottom of the crucible, the grain boundaries formed by the impingement of dendrite crystals will become random grain boundaries. On the other hand, if the direction of the growth of dendrite crystals would be controlled to one direction, the formed grain boundary would be {111}Σ3 twin boundary, because the side surface of the dendrite crystal is {111} plane owing to the existence of two parallel {111} twin boundaries at the center of the dendrite crystal. Actually, it was reported that the angle of the impingement of two dendrite crystals affected the 20 18 16 14 12 10 8 0 5 10 15 Diameter of the crucibles 150 mmφ 80 mmφ 50 mmφ 20 25 30 35 Distance from the bottom of the ingot (mm) Conversion efficiency (%) 40 Fig. 14 Solar cell efﬁciencies of the wafers cut from mc-Si ingots grown by dendritic cast method. The diameters of the crucible were 50 mmϕ, 80 mmϕ, and 150 mmϕ (Fujiwara et al. 2006a) 8 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method 205 dislocation density at the formed grain boundaries (Takahashi et al. 2015). It was shown that the parallel arrangement of dendrite crystals beneﬁcially decreased dislocation density. a b Fig. 15 Schematic image of the control of dendrite growth at the bottom of the crucible. (a) In case that dendrites grow to random direction. Random grain boundaries will be formed at the impinge- ment of the dendrites. (b) In case that dendrites grow to the same direction, Σ3 twin boundaries will be formed at the impingement of the dendrites Graphite plate with low thermal conductivity Graphite plate with low thermal conductivity b a Graphite plate with high thermal conductivity 280 mmφ 320 mmφ 320 mmφ 5 mm 5 mm 5 mm 30 mm Fig. 16 Graphite plates set under the crucible to control the dendrite growth (Nakajima et al. 2011) 206 K. Fujiwara Nakajima et al. attempted to control the direction of growth of the dendrite crystals at the bottom wall of crucible by using graphite plates with different thermal conductivity (Nakajima et al. 2011). They set carbon plates under the crucible (Fig. 16). In case of Fig. 16a, there was a line-shaped highly cooled part by making a gap in a circular graphite plate. In case of Fig. 16b, there was a ring-shaped highly cooled part, which were made by combining graphite plates with high and low thermal conductivities of 40 and 0.35 W/m K, respectively. Figure 17 shows bottom structures of mc-Si ingot grown by dendritic cast method with (a) no graphite plates, (b) a graphite plate with a line-shaped highly cooled part, and (c) a ring-shaped highly cooled part combining two kinds of graphite plates. When the dendrite growth was promoted by cooling all over the bottom part in the initial stage of casting, dendrite crystals grew to random direction, as indicated by arrows. On the other hand, in the ingot grown using a graphite plate with a line- shaped highly cooled part, most of dendrite crystals initiated to grow at the line- shaped highly cooled part. Also, in the ingot grown using two kinds of graphite plates with a ring-shaped highly cooled part, dendrite crystals initiated to grow at the edge part due to the existence of a ring shape high-thermal conductivity graphite. In this way, the direction of the growth of the dendrite could be controlled by the Dendrite crystals that appeared first a b c Dendrite crystals that appeared second Highly supercooled part roughly existed near this circle Dendrite crystals that appeared first Highly supercooled part Dendrite crystal θ y-axis Dendrite crystals that appeared second Dendrite crystals that appeared first Dendrite crystals that appeared second Fig. 17 Bottom structures of mc-Si ingot grown by a dendritic cast method using (a) no graphite plates, (b) a graphite plate with a line-shaped highly cooled part, and (c) two kinds of graphite plates with a ring-shaped highly cooled part (Nakajima et al. 2011) 8 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method 207 generation of a local cooling system at the bottom of the crucible. Wang et al. attempted to control the nucleation site and initial grain growth by using a spot cooling (Wang et al. 2009). They also obtained large size grains due to the promotion of the dendrite growth. Problems and Future Developments of the Dendritic Cast Method The dendritic cast method was attempted to use in the industrial-scale furnace. Yang et al. grew mc-Si ingots by changing the undercooling at the bottom of the crucible (Yang et al. 2015). Figure 18 shows bottom structures of three typical ingots obtained by controlling undercooling. It was shown that dendrite structures were obtained at highly undercooled region. They reported that the control of undercooling in the industrial-scale furnace became much more difﬁcult due to the much higher thermal resistance of the crucible and the heat exchanger block, as well as the coating uniformity in large area for nucleation (Yang et al. 2015). Actually, the undercooling and the direction of heat releasing at the bottom of the crucible have to be controlled for controlling the dendrite growth in the initial stage of casting. Some kind of devices, such as the combining graphite plates with high and low thermal conductivities, which was attempted by Nakajima et al., will be required to control the dendrite growth. Generation of dislocations is also the problem. In the dendritic cast method, dislocation densities decreased in comparison with a conventional casting method. However, the dislocations generated in the initial stage of casting, generally at the grain boundary, will develop during directional solidiﬁcation, as shown in Fig. 19 (Ryningen et al. 2011). Larger sized crystal grains obtained by the dendritic cast method leads to decrease in the grain boundary density; however, this means that Fig. 18 Bottom structures of mc-Si ingots by controlling undercooling (Yang et al. 2015) 208 K. Fujiwara dislocations are difﬁcult to be absorbed in grain boundaries during directional solidiﬁcation due to the low density of random grain boundary. To decrease the dislocation density at the initial stage of casting, ﬁrst, the density of dendrite crystal should be decreased to reduce the density of grain boundary which becomes the source of dislocations. In addition, it is necessary not only to control the direction of growth of the dendrite crystals, but also to disturb the impurity contamination and Fig. 19 Development of dislocation clusters during directional solidiﬁcation (Ryningen et al. 2011) 8 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method 209 the stress generation from the crucible wall coated with Si3N4 powders, which is the common problem in all kinds of casting methods. Recently, the high-performance mc-Si (HP mc-Si) is widely used in industry (Yang et al. 2015), as described in Chapter 10 in this book (see Chap. 7, Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method). HP mc-Si ingots include uniform small sized (a few millime- ters) crystal grains and high density of random grain boundaries. It seems that dislocations will be absorbed into the random grain boundaries during directional solidiﬁcation, and thus the dislocation density in the ingot decreases. Therefore, at present, the minority carrier lifetime of HP mc-Si is higher than that of mc-Si grown by a conventional casting method and a dendritic cast method, as shown in Fig. 20 (Yang et al. 2015). In future, if the densities of dislocation and impurities (carbon and oxygen) are reduced in the mc-Si ingot with larger sized crystal grains, the order will be changed like Fig. 21, because the grain boundary is the defect itself which acts as a recombination center of photocarriers. Further, in the process of solar cells, a solar cell based on mc-Si wafer loses about 1% of energy conversion efﬁciency because of their inefﬁcient surface textural structure. If a mc-Si wafer with large-size oriented grains would be obtained, a better surface textural structure will be obtained, which leads to a higher energy conversion efﬁciency of solar cells. As one of the future developments, a nonwetting cast method combining the dendritic cast method was proposed (Fujiwara et al. 2015). The growth concept is shown in Fig. 22. In this method, the purities of atmosphere and raw Si materials, and the material for crucible should be taken care to realize a state that a Si melt is nonwetting and nonreactive with a crucible at high temperature (Fig. 22a). The impurity contamination and stress generation into Si crystal from the crucible or Fig. 20 Life time mapping and average conversion efﬁciency of the bricks and wafers obtained by (a) a conventional cast method, (b) Hp Mc-Si, and (c) a dendritic cast method (Yang et al. 2015) 210 K. Fujiwara coating materials will be disturbed when the ingot is grown from the Si melt maintaining the state that nonwetting and nonreactive with a crucible. The dendritic cast method, enhancing the dendrite growth in the initial stage of casting, will be useful for obtaining larger-sized oriented crystal grains to reduce the grain boundary density (Fig. 22b). The nonwetting and nonreactive condition should be maintained during directional solidiﬁcation process. a Melting process of Si raw materials b Initial stage of casting c Directional solidification Si melt Si melt Si melt Maintaining a non-wetting and non-reactive condition between Si melt and crucible for the reduction of impurity contamination and stress generation Enhancement of dendrite growth for the reduction of grain boundary density Mc-Si ingot with low defects Fig. 22 Growth concept combining a non-wetting and a dendritic cast methods Fig. 21 Grain structures and energy conversion efﬁciency of solar cells 8 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method 211 Based on this growth concept, it was attempted to grow a mc-Si ingot (Fujiwara et al. 2015). Barium hydroxide was spread all over the inner surface of a quartz crucible, instead of Si3N4 coating, and ﬁred it. For comparison, a similar quartz crucible (GE214) with Si3N4 coating was used for growing mc-Si ingot. Figure 23 shows the top surfaces of as-grown mc-Si ingots grown by the method of Fig. 22 (hereafter, nonwetting dendritic cast method) and the conventional method. The surface of the ingot grown by the nonwetting dendritic cast method was much shinier. Figure 24 shows the side and bottom surfaces of both as-grown mc-Si ingots. The surfaces of the ingot grown by the nonwetting dendritic cast method were very smooth and shiny, so that the grain structures were not visible, while the surfaces of the ingot grown by the conventional method were rough and the grain structures were visible. Those results indicated that wetting and reaction between the Si melt and crucible were restrained. The minority carrier lifetime of the wafers with a size of 125  125  0.2 mm3 cut from the middle part of both ingots was measured. The average values of minority carrier lifetime of the wafer cut from the ingot grown in a nonwetting cast method was about three times higher than that of the wafer taken from the ingot grown by the conventional method. These results indicate that the mc-Si ingot grown by a nonwetting dendritic cast method has the potential for the production of high- quality mc-Si ingot for solar cells. The development of this technology was just started and should be improved more and more. However, if this technology will be completely established, the mc-Si ingot with low densities of impurity, dislocation, and grain boundary will be realized. Fig. 23 Top surface of as grown mc-Si ingots grown by (a) nonwetting dendritic cast method and (b) conventional cast method (Fujiwara et al. 2015) 212 K. Fujiwara Concluding Remarks The dendritic cast method is a unique method for controlling grain structures in mc-Si ingots. Large-sized oriented grain structure is obtained by this method. On the other hand, the control of undercooling in the initial stage of casting and decrease of dislocation density during directional solidiﬁcation process in the industrial scale furnace are the main problems. However, the ideas to overcome these problems have been proposed, which suggested us the direction for the improvement of this method. The continuous efforts by the researchers will lead to the establishment of this technology for producing high-quality mc-Si ingots. Cross-References Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method Fig. 24 Side and bottom surfaces of as grown mc-Si ingots grown by (a) nonwetting dendritic cast method and (b) conventional cast method (Fujiwara et al. 2015) 8 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method 213 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method References N. Albon, A.E. Owen, J. Phys. Chem. Solids 24, 899 (1963) D.L. Barrett, E.H. Myers, D.R. Hamilton, A.I. Bennett, J. Electrochem. Soc. 118, 952 (1971) A.I. Bennett, R.L. Longini, Phys. Rev. 116, 53 (1959) E. Billig, Proc. R. Soc. A 229, 346 (1955) T.F. Ciszek, G.H. Schwuttke, K.H. Yang, J. Cryst. Growth 46, 527 (1979) K. Fujiwara, in Handbook of Crystal Growth, vol. 1B, 2nd edn., ed. by T. Nishinaga (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2015), p. 723 K. Fujiwara, K. Nakajima, T. Ujihara, N. Usami, G. Sazaki, H. Hasegawa, S. Mizoguchi, K. Nakajima, J. Cryst. Growth 243, 275 (2002) K. Fujiwara, Y. Obinata, T. Ujihara, N. Usami, G. Sazaki, K. Nakajima, J. Cryst. Growth 262, 124 (2004) K. Fujiwara, W. Pan, N. Usami, K. Sawada, M. Tokairin, Y. Nose, A. Nomura, T. Shishido, K. Nakajima, Acta Mater. 54, 3191 (2006a) K. Fujiwara, W. Pan, K. Sawada, M. Tokairin, N. Usami, Y. Nose, A. Nomura, T. Shishido, K. Nakajima, J. Cryst. Growth 292, 282 (2006b) K. Fujiwara, K. Maeda, N. Usami, G. Sazaki, Y. Nose, K. Nakajima, Scr. Mater. 57, 81 (2007) K. Fujiwara, K. Maeda, N. Usami, G. Sazaki, Y. Nose, A. Nomura, T. Shishido, K. Nakajima, Acta Mater. 56, 2663 (2008) K. Fujiwara, R. Gotoh, X. Yang, H. Koizumi, J. Nozawa, S. Uda, Acta Mater. 59, 4700 (2011) K. Fujiwara, M. Tokairin, W. Pan, H. Koizumi, J. Nozawa, S. Uda, Appl. Phys. Lett. 104, 182110 (2014) K. Fujiwara, Y. Horioka, S. Sakuragi, Energy Sci. Eng. 3, 419 (2015) D.R. Hamilton, R.G. Seidensticker, J. Appl. Phys. 31, 1165 (1960) M. Kohyama, R. Yamamoto, M. Doyama, Phys. Stat. Sol. B 138, 387 (1986) C.F. Lau, H.W. Kui, Acta Metall. Mater. 39, 323 (1991) D. Li, D.M. Herlach, Phys. Rev. Lett. 77, 1801 (1996) W.W. Mullins, R.F. Sekerka, J. Appl. Phys. 35, 444 (1964) K. Nagashio, K. Kuribayashi, Acta Mater. 53, 3021 (2005) K. Nakajima, N. Usami, K. Fujiwara, K. Kutsukake, S. Okamoto, in Proceedings of the 24th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 2009, p. 1219 K. Nakajima, K. Kutsukake, K. Fujiwara, N. Usami, S. Ono, I. Yamasaki, in Proceedings of the 35th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 2010a, p. 817 K. Nakajima, K. Kutsukake, K. Fujiwara, N. Usami, S. Ono, I. Yamasaki, in Proceedings of the 25th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition (25th EU PVSEC); the 5th World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion (WCPEC-5), 2010b, p. 1299 K. Nakajima, K. Kutsukake, K. Fujiwara, K. Morishita, S. Ono, J. Cryst. Growth 319, 13 (2011) S. OHara, A.I. Bennett, J. Appl. Phys. 35, 686 (1964) B. Ryningen, G. Stokkan, M. Kivambe, T. Ervik, O. Lohne, Acta Mater. 59, 7703 (2011) I. Takahashi, S. Joonwichien, S. Matsushima, N. Usami, J. Appl. Phys. 117, 095701 (2015) M. Tokairin, K. Fujiwara, K. Kutsukake, N. Usami, K. Nakajima, Phys. Rev. B 80, 174108 (2009) R.S. Wagner, Acta Metall. 8, 57 (1960) Y. Wang, Y. Hsu, C.C. Fei, K.M. Yei, W.C. Hsu, C.W. Lan, J. Cryst. Growth 311, 263 (2009) Y.M. Yang, A. Yu, B. Hsu, W.C. Hsu, A. Yang, C.W. Lan, Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 23, 340 (2015) 214 K. Fujiwara Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method 9 Kentaro Kutsukake Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 216 Fundamentals of the Mono-Like Method ....................................................... 217 Seed Growth ................................................................................. 217 Advantages and Disadvantages of the Mono-Like Method .................................... 219 Dislocation Generation .......................................................................... 221 Inﬂuence of Grain Boundary Microstructure ............................................... 221 Inﬂuence of Stress Distribution .............................................................. 223 Advanced Mono-Like Methods ................................................................. 225 Functional Grain Boundaries ................................................................ 225 Seed Manipulation for Artiﬁcially Controlled Defects Technique (SMART) .............. 228 Control of Seed Joint Structure: Special Grain Boundaries and Seed Partitions ........... 230 Mono-Like Growth Without Seed Joints: Large Seed and Mushroom-Type Interface Growth .......................................................... 232 Conclusions ...................................................................................... 232 Cross-References ................................................................................ 233 References ....................................................................................... 233 Abstract The mono-like method, also known as the mono cast, seed cast, and quasi-mono methods, is a candidate next-generation method of casting Si ingots for solar cell applications, replacing conventional casting methods. The mono-like method provides single crystalline Si ingots with the use of almost the same facilities as those used for growth of multicrystalline Si ingots. Hence, the mono-like method has potential to achieve Si ingots with both high quality and low cost. However, the mono-like method faces challenges owing to its crystal growth processes, K. Kutsukake (*) Center for Advanced Intelligence Project, RIKEN, Tokyo, Japan e-mail: kentaro.kutsukake@riken.jp  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_35 215 such as multicrystallization, dislocation generation, and impurity contamination. To address these problems, advanced mono-like methods have been developed. In this chapter, advanced mono-like methods are reviewed from the viewpoint of crystal growth and the fundamentals of the mono-like method. Keywords Silicon  Crystal growth  Mono-like  Seed growth  Seed cast  Quasi-mono  Dislocations  Dislocation generation  Grain boundaries  Defect engineering  Artiﬁcial grain boundaries  Functional defects Introduction The mono-like method is a growth method for single crystalline Si ingots based on a casting method. Almost the same growth furnace and procedures as those for multi- crystalline silicon (mc-Si) can be used. The similarity with the mc-Si casting process leads to advantages in terms of low cost and high throughput. The main difference with mc-Si processes is that single crystalline Si ingots can be obtained with the use of single crystalline seeds. Generally, single crystalline Si solar cells show higher perfor- mance than those based on mc-Si, and this is also true for single crystalline Si grown by the mono-like method (e.g., Mrcarica 2013, Jay et al. 2014, and Jouini 2018). Thus, mono-like Si has both the advantages of single crystalline and multicrystalline Si and represents a potential high-quality low cost-material for solar cells. The development of mono-like methods for solar cell applications started fol- lowing the BP solar report (Stoddard et al. 2008). The idea of growing single crystalline Si in a crucible together with seed crystals had been suggested for a long time (e.g., Ciszek et al. 1979). The BP solar breakthrough was to demonstrate that a single crystalline ingot could be obtained with a practically useful size. Considerable research and development followed this initial report; however, the market share of the mono-like method remains low at present. The reasons for this low-market share are related to the ingot cost and quality, which are in turn controlled by the crystal growth process and crystal defects in mono-like ingots. Thus, further research to address these issues is necessary for developing and practically applying the mono-like method. In this chapter, ﬁrst the fundamentals of the mono-like method are described from the viewpoint of crystal growth. Then, advanced mono-like methods such as func- tional grain boundaries, functional defects, and mushroom-type interface growth are presented. Most of these advanced methods aim to control the generation and propagation of crystal defects during the crystal growth processes. Finally, future developments of the mono-like method are discussed. Note that the growth method and single crystalline Si ingots grown in a crucible by the casting method are also described by the terms as seed cast, mono cast, and quasi-mono. In this chapter, the term mono-like is used collectively. 216 K. Kutsukake Fundamentals of the Mono-Like Method Seed Growth The Czochralski (CZ) method is well known for growingsingle bulk crystals by drawing seed crystals over the Si melt (see Chap. 6, Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si). Seed crystals are also used directly inside the crucible in the Bridgman method. Figure 1 shows a schematic illustration of the vertical Bridgeman method. In the method, crystal growth is performed by slowly pulling the crucible down in a temperature gradient formed by separated heaters in the furnace. The crystal directionally grows from the melt as the materials move across the position corresponding to the melting point. In this process, if a seed crystal is placed at the bottom of the crucible, crystals with the same crystal orientation as the seed grow on the seed epitaxially. The mono-like method to produce single crystalline Si ingots for solar cells is basically same as the vertical Bridgman method in terms of the following technical features: it involves directional growth in a crucible from the bottom to the top and the use of single crystalline seeds. From another point of view, the mono-like method is similar to the casting method used to produce mc-Si for solar cells (see Chaps. 8, Growth of Multi- crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method, and 7, Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method). Figures 2 and 3 show schematic illustrations of the casting method and mono-like method, respectively. In the case of the casting method, ﬁrst, all the Si raw materials in a crucible are completely melted at a high temperature above the melting point. Then, the furnace is cooled down, and crystals grow directionally from the bottom to the top of the crucible. At the initial stage of this process, crystal grains randomly nucleate on the bottom surface of the crucible with various crystal orientations. These initial crystal grains act as a template for the following directional growth. As Temperature M.P. Upper heater Lower heater Crucible Melt Seed Fig. 1 Schematic illustration of vertical Bridgeman method 9 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method 217 a result, the grown ingot becomes a columnar multicrystal and inherits the initial grain structure. However, in the case of the mono-like method, single crystalline seeds are used as a template for directional growth. Generally, the 100 orientation is selected for the crystal orientation of the seed in the growth direction in consideration of solar cell applications. These seed bricks are prepared from single crystalline CZ ingots. In the practical mono-like method, a typical seed size is similar to the size of solar cell wafers, i.e., (15.6 + α)  (15.6 + α)  few cm3. Here, α is the kerf for cutting ingots to bricks. For example, in the case of the growth of G5 size mono-like ingots, 5  5 = 25 seed bricks are needed as shown in Fig. 3. As in this example, multiple seed crystals are required for practical mono-like growth because a large seed crystal covering the whole area of the bottom of the crucible cannot be made from CZ ingots. Thus, boundaries between seed crystals are introduced into the ingot. These seed joints are a source of dislocation generation during crystal growth. This Crucible Si melt Crystal grains 2D growth Directional growth Fig. 2 Schematic illustration of mc-Si growth of the casting method Seed 100 Few cm 15.6cm+α 15.6cm+α Melting raw materials while keeping seeds Directional growth Fig. 3 Schematic illustration of seed and single crystalline growth of the mono-like method 218 K. Kutsukake problem will be discussed in the next section together with the other problems associated with the mono-like method. Except for the seed crystals, the same materials as the growth of mc-Si ingots can be used for the crucible, its coating, the Si raw materials, and ﬂow gases. For the ingot growth, a mc-Si crystal growth furnace can be used. In the growth procedure, to keeping the seed crystals solid during the melting process of the Si raw materials, the processing conditions and temperature proﬁle require some modiﬁcations from those used to grow mc-Si ingots. These modiﬁcations lead to a slight increase of the processing time, typically less than few hours. There are almost no differences in the following growth processes: directional solidiﬁca- tion, and cooling. In the cutting process from ingots to bricks and the slicing process from bricks to wafers, almost the same facilities and sequences used for mc-Si can be applied to mono-like ingots (see Chap. 11, Wafer Processing). Additionally, for slicing, multiwire sawing using ﬁxed diamond abrasive grains is applicable. This is a consid- erable advantage of the mono-like method and will be explained in the next section. Advantages and Disadvantages of the Mono-Like Method As described in the above section, the production facilities and processes for the mono-like method are similar to those used in the casting method for growth of mc-Si ingots. Therefore, the mono-like method has almost the same advantages as the casting method in terms of ingot production. Namely, it provides a high produc- tion throughput owing to the huge size of the ingots and the greater material yield owing to the square shape of ingots, comparing with the CZ method. Furthermore, mono-like and casting growth can be conducted with automatic operation; however, the CZ method needs human checking of the process when the seed touches the Si melt surface. These processing features reduce the production costs. Furthermore, the similarity with the casting method also lowers the barrier to introducing this method on a practical manufacturing line. Existing facilities for producing mc-Si ingots can also be effectively used for mono-like ingots. Mono-like Si also has advantages in terms of its crystal quality. Mono-like Si ingots are single crystalline although these are sometimes termed single-crystal- like or quasi-crystalline. Mono-like Si wafers share many of the advantages of single crystalline wafers made from CZ ingots. In mono-like Si wafers, there are no grain boundaries which operate as recombination sites for photogenerated carriers. Therefore, the conversion efﬁciency of solar cells based on mono-like Si wafers is potentially higher than that of mc-Si wafers containing electrically active grain boundaries. Another advantage of single crystals is the uniform {100} crystal orientation of the wafer surface, which is beneﬁcial for surface texturing in alkaline solution. This feature also contributes to better optical conﬁnement by texturing and can be adapted to cost-effective multiwire sawing by ﬁxed diamond abrasive grains. In the case of mc-Si, surface texturing is generally performed in acid solution owing to the 9 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method 219 random crystal orientation of the wafer surface. Such acid texturing requires the formation of a surface damage layer formed by multiwire sawing with loose grains. However, multiwire sawing by ﬁxed diamond abrasive grains forms a layer with little damage present. For these reasons, it is difﬁcult to adapt cost-effective multiwire sawing by ﬁxed-diamond abrasives to mc-Si. However, texturing of the {100} surface of single-crystalline Si in alkaline solution does not need a surface damage layer; therefore, mono-like Si is suitable for multiwire sawing by ﬁxed- diamond abrasives. As discussed above, mono-like Si shares many of the advantages of CZ-Si and mc-Si; however, these advantages can become limitations in certain cases. The crystal quality of mono-like Si is slightly worse than that of CZ-Si and mono-like Si has a slightly higher cost than that of mc-Si. These crystal quality and cost issues are mainly related to the problems of growing crystals of mono-like Si ingots, as shown in Fig. 4. (1) Dislocation gener- ation: a large number of dislocations are generated from grain boundaries formed at seed-crystal joints. These dislocations form clusters, which degrade solar cell per- formance. (2) Multicrystallization: crystal grains nucleate at the inner side walls of the crucible during directional crystal growth in the same way that grains nucleate on mc-Si at the bottom surface of the crucible. These crystal grains extend inside the ingot with directional growth. As a result, the obtained wafers become partially multicrystalline. (3) Impurity diffusion: the periphery region of an mc-Si ingot, a so-called red zone, typically shows low carrier lifetimes owing to solid phase diffusion of metallic impurities, such as iron, from the crucible and its coating materials. In the case of the mono-like method, the seed crystals remain solid in the high-temperature process of melting the raw materials. During the process, metallic impurities diffuse into the seed crystals from the bottom of the crucible. This diffusion results in a thicker bottom red zone for mono-like Si ingots than that of mc-Si ingots. (4) Seed cost: single crystalline seeds are made from CZ-Si ingots. This raises the cost of mono-like Si because, of course, CZ-Si is more expensive than the Si raw materials. Fig. 4 Schematic illustration of the problems associated with the mono-like method 220 K. Kutsukake All these disadvantages are related to the crystal growth of mono-like Si, although each factor has a different inﬂuence. Thus, further fundamental studies of the crystal growth of mono-like crystals are needed. Investigations have been performed to try to resolve the issues related to the mono-like method. In the following sections, the mechanism of dislocation generation is discussed and advanced mono-like methods are described. Dislocation Generation As described in the above section, dislocations generated from grain boundaries formed by seed joints are a serious problem in mono-like Si. The problem of dislocation generation at grain boundaries is also common in the growth of mc-Si ingots (see Chaps. 18, Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations, and 19, Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon). Thus, many studies have been conducted to reveal the mechanism of dislocation generation during ingot growth. The studies can be roughly categorized into two types of investigations from different viewpoints: the inﬂuence of the grain boundary microstructure and the inﬂuence of the stress distribution. This section reviews studies on the mechanism of dislocation generation from grain boundaries from these two viewpoints. Influence of Grain Boundary Microstructure Grain boundaries can be categorized into three types by their misorientation angle, θR, as illustrated in Fig. 5. Grain boundaries with θR less than or equal to the critical angle, θC, are categorized as small angle boundaries (sub-grain boundary). The microstructure of small angle boundaries is described by aligned dislocations, as shown in Fig. 6. The distance between adjacent dislocations is inversely proportional Category of grain boundaries by rotation angle Rotation angle: θR Grain boundary Small angle boundary (sub-grain boundary) Large angle boundary Random grain boundary CSL boundary (Σ boundary) θR θC θR  θC Σ 27 Σ  27 θR Fig. 5 Categories of grain boundaries based on rotation angle, where θC is the critical angle and Σ is determined by coincidence site lattice theory 9 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method 221 to θR. The type of dislocations introduced at the boundary plane depends on the component of θR: edge dislocations and screw dislocations are introduced to relax tilt and twist components of θR, respectively. Thus, the microstructure of small angle boundaries changes markedly with the angle and component of θR. The critical angle between small and large angle boundaries, θC, approximately corresponds to the angle at which the microstructure of the grain boundaries changes from that consisting of aligned dislocations to a random structure. In the case of Si crystals, an angle in the range of 10 to 15 is typically expected for θC. Grain boundaries with θR larger than θC are considered to be large angle bound- aries and these can be further divided into two groups based on their Σ value, which is determined by coincidence site lattice (CSL) theory (see Fig. 7). The Σ value shows the coherency of the two crystal lattices at both sides of the grain boundary. A smaller Σ value indicates a higher density of coincidence lattice points at the grain boundary surface, i.e., a more stable grain boundary structure. In the case of Si, large angle boundaries with Σ values less than or equal to 27 are considered to be CSL dislocations θR Small angle boundary D = 2sin( 2 ) = Fig. 6 Schematic illustration of the microstructure of small angle boundaries. In the equation, b is the length of the Burgers vector of the dislocations S volume of unit cell of CSL volume of unit cell Rotation axis 001 Rotation angle 36.87 {100} Σ5 twist boundary {100} Fig. 7 Schematic illustration of the calculation of the Σ value. The displayed grain boundary is a {100} Σ5 twist boundary for a simple cubic lattice. The value of Σ is deﬁned by the volume ratio of the unit cell of the CSL and volume of the unit cell 222 K. Kutsukake boundaries, and other large angle boundaries with Σ values greater than 27 are considered to be random grain boundaries. Deviation from the misorientation angle of a perfect CSL boundary is relaxed by insertion of grain boundary dislocations at the grain boundary plane, as for the case of small angle boundaries. Thus, the microstructures of CSL boundary are sensitive to change in the misorientation angle and its components. However, the microstruc- ture of random grain boundaries is insensitive to small changes in the misorientation angle and its components. For these reasons, the inﬂuence of the grain boundary microstructure on dislocation generation is crucial for small angle and CSL bound- aries in terms of the deviation angle from the perfect crystal and the perfect CSL misorientation, respectively. Experimentally, Wu et al. showed that a 0-tilt bound- ary (note that in this paper there was no deﬁnition of small misorientation angle) generates dislocations more easily than large-angle tilt boundaries during the growth of mono-like Si ingots (Wu et al. 2016). Their results also support the above idea that dislocation generation from a small angle boundary is more sensitive to the micro- structure than that from large angle random grain boundaries. The inﬂuence of the misorientation angle of a small angle boundary on the dislocation generation was investigated in a mono-like Si ingot with 110 crystal orientations in the growth direction (Ekstrøm et al. 2015). They formed nine small angle boundaries in an ingot with boundary planes of {100}/{100} or {110}/{110} having different misorientations less than 0.6 using designed seed crystals. The dislocation generation from the boundaries was evaluated through photo- luminescence imaging of horizontal cross sections of the ingot, as shown in Fig. 8. In the junctions containing no or small gaps, the amount of generated dislocations mainly depends on the misorientation between the adjacent seeds. High bulk life- times are retained for sufﬁciently low misorientations. The gap between adjacent seeds is another parameter that determines the micro- structure of grain boundaries formed by seed joints. Dislocation generation inside and above seed gaps during the growth of mono-like ingots has also been investi- gated (Trempa et al. 2014), by testing the inﬂuence of various parameters of the seeds joints, including: crystal orientation in the growth direction, crystal orientation of the gap plane, surface treatment of the gap surface, and the space of the gaps. Dislocations generated above the gaps were smaller for the 100 growth direction than those for the 110 and  111 directions. Influence of Stress Distribution As described above, dislocation generation from a random grain boundary is insen- sitive to the microstructure. Thus, in the case of random grain boundaries, the inﬂuence of stress around the boundary has a greater inﬂuence on dislocation generation. Si crystals have an anisotropic elastic constant. Therefore, the macro- scopic stress distribution in an ingot during the crystal growth process depends on the combination of crystal orientation of grains at both sides of the grain boundary as well as growth conditions, such as the temperature distribution and cooling speed. 9 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method 223 The distribution of shear stress produced by isotropic deformation was calculated for various combinations of crystal grain orientation grains by a ﬁnite element method and the calculation results were compared with experimental results for the growth of small mono-like ingots (Takahashi et al. 2010). The amount of observed dislocations generated from a random grain boundary showed a positive correlation with the magnitude of the numerically calculated shear stress, as calculated for the crystal orientations of the grain boundary. The dislocation behavior in mono-like Si with a seed junction and single crys- talline Si without a seed junction has been investigated from the view point of the stress distribution during crystal growth processes (Jiptner et al. 2016). Single crystalline Si results have shown that dislocation motion has a considerable inﬂuence on the dislocation distribution in the (111) system. Long slip lines were observed in (111)-oriented ingots but not in (100)-oriented ingots. Experimental results and Fig. 8 (a) Carrier lifetime distribution evaluated by quantitative photoluminescence imaging. Junctions from 1.1 to 1.6 and from 2.1 and 2.3 in (b) are {110}/{110} and {100}/ {100} junctions, respectively. The angle of each junction shows the misorientation angle of the boundaries. (From Ekstrøm et al. 2015) 224 K. Kutsukake numerical simulations using the HasenAlexanderSumino model showed good correlation; however, simulations cannot correctly predict such long dislocation motion, as shown in Fig. 9. Advanced Mono-Like Methods Functional Grain Boundaries Generally, grain boundaries have anegative impact on solar cell performance, acting as carrier recombination sites and a source of dislocations. In the early 2000s, the concept of controlling multicrystalline structures was proposed by Nakajimas group (see Fig. 1 in Chap. 8, Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method). An ideal grain boundary is described as electrically inactive with the ability to act as a sink for other defects, such as point defects, impurities, and dislocations. Thus, the positive features of grain boundaries can be used to improve solar cell performance. Fig. 9 X-ray topography images of (a) 100 and (b) 111 single crystalline Si ingots after annealing experiments and the distribution of dislocation density of (c) 100 and (d) 111 ingots predicted by numerical simulation. (From Jiptner et al. 2016) 9 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method 225 The idea of a functional grain boundary was conceived based on the above concept (Kutsukake et al. 2013). Furthermore, in addition to the taking advantage of the positive features of grain boundaries, the idea of controlling grain boundary structures in multi-seed crystals has been adapted. The growth of artiﬁcial grain boundaries in bulk Si crystals based on multi-seed crystals has been developed to investigate microstructure, growth phenomena, and electrical properties of the grain boundaries, before the BP solar report on mono-like Si in 2008. In particular, coincidence site lattice (CSL) grain boundaries have been well investigated, including: {111}Σ3 and {221}Σ9 grain boundaries grown by the CZ method (Endrös 2002); {111}Σ3 grain boundaries grown by ﬂoating zone (FZ) method (Kitamura et al. 2005); {310}Σ5 grain boundaries grown by the vertical Bridgeman method (Kutsukake et al. 2007a); {310}Σ5 grain boundaries grown by the FZ method (Kutsukake et al. 2007b); and random grain boundaries grown by the CZ method (Hoshikawa et al. 2007). Among the various CSL boundaries, Σ5 grain boundaries are notable as potential functional grain boundary candidates because they have the lowest sigma value in the CSL grain boundary family parallel to the 100 crystal orienta- tion, which is a useful orientation for solar cell applications. Figure 10 shows the seed design for forming a {310}Σ5 grain boundary grown by the vertical Bridgman method. A columnar single crystalline Si with a [001] crystal orientation in the growth direction was cut along the (310) plane perpendicular to the growth direction. Then, one crystal piece was rotated 180 around the [310] axis perpendicular to the cutting plane. Through this operation, a Σ5 relationship was formed between the two crystal pieces. A {310}Σ5 grain boundary can be artiﬁcially formed by epitaxial growth on these multi-seed crystals in the vertical Bridgeman method. The {310}Σ5 grain boundaries formed by such designed multi-seed crystals have been used as functional grain boundaries to suppress multicrystallization, which is a crystal growth issue associated with the mono-like method, as mentioned in the previous section. Figure 11 shows a schematic illustration and photographs of vertical cross sections of mono-like Si ingots with and without functional grain boundaries to suppress multicrystallization (Kutsukake et al. 2014). The ingot without functional grain boundaries corresponds to a conventional mono-like Si ingot. During directional growth of mono-like Si ingots, {111}Σ3 grain boundaries frequently form at the crucible side walls accompanied by nucleation of multi- crystalline grains. The {111} grain boundary plane of the formed {111}Σ3 grain 180 (310) 1 0 0 [ ] (310)Σ3 GB [310] 5 Fig. 10 Seed design for forming a {310}Σ5 grain boundary 226 K. Kutsukake boundaries inclines from the [001] crystal orientation in the growth direction of the mono-like ingots. The area of multicrystalline grains consequently increases with the crystal growth direction. As a result, conventional mono-like wafers along the crucible side walls contain a large multicrystalline area. In the case of a mono-like Si ingot with functional grain boundaries, {310}Σ5 grain boundaries form near the crucible side walls for multi-seed crystals. Figure 12 shows a schematic illustration of the mechanism by which multicrystallization is suppressed. The {310}Σ5 grain boundaries have a stable conﬁguration in the [001] crystal orientation, and therefore extend straight in the growth direction of the mono- like Si ingot. The {111}Σ3 grain boundaries formed on the crucible side walls were converted into {310}Σ15 grain boundaries by interaction with {310}Σ5 grain boundaries. The {310}Σ15 grain boundaries have a stable conﬁguration in the [001] crystal orientation, and therefore extend straight in the growth direction of Fig. 11 Schematic illustration and photographs of vertical cross sections of mono-like Si ingots with and without functional grain boundaries to suppress multicrystallization Fig. 12 Schematic illustration of the mechanism by which multicrystallization is suppressed 9 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method 227 the mono-like Si ingot as {310}Σ5 grain boundaries. As a result, extension of multicrystalline grains inside the ingot was prevented and the multicrystalline regions were conﬁned to the periphery of the ingot. As mentioned in the previous section, such periphery regions correspond to the red zone, which is a highly contaminated area and not used for solar cell wafers. Therefore, the material yield is not impaired by the functional grain boundary method. Moreover, the functional grain boundary method also has the advantage of a wide processing window. The grain boundary interaction is determined only by the crys- tallographic geometry and does not depend on the crystal growth conditions, such as growth rate, magnitude of the temperature gradient, and crystal size. Therefore, multicrystallization of mono-like Si can be suppressed by replacing conventional seeds with functional grain boundary seeds without changing growth conditions. Seed Manipulation for Artificially Controlled Defects Technique (SMART) Takahashi et al. extended the idea of functional grain boundaries to functional defects and proposed the seed manipulation for artiﬁcially controlled defects tech- nique (SMART). Figure 13 shows a schematic illustration of SMART. This method used two types of functional grain boundaries to generate dislocations and block dislocation propagation. Dislocations make positive contributions to impurity gettering and stress relaxation with plastic deformation in the crystal growth process; however, dislocations also have considerable negative effects, acting as carrier recombination sites in solar cell wafers. To take advantage of their positive effects, dislocations are intentionally and locally introduced as functional defects in func- tional grain boundaries formed from multiple seed crystals. However, introduced dislocations normally propagate to a large area in the ingot with directional growth High-dislocation-density area Generation of dislocation cluster GB to generate dislocations GB to suppress dislocation generation Quality-controlled region Functional defect Structure of the functional defect GB to block dislocation propagation 156 mm for solar-cell fabrication a b Seed Grown crystal Fig. 13 Concept of SMART. (a) Structure of functional defects and (b) arrangement of seeds and grown crystals in a crucible. (From Takahashi et al. 2015) 228 K. Kutsukake as in the case of dislocations generated at seed joints. Thus, to block propagation of the dislocations, another type of functional grain boundary is also formed along the functional grain boundary used to generate dislocations. As a result, a high-density group of dislocations is conﬁned in a thin region of the ingot. In addition, it is possible to make functional grain boundaries with the ability to both block propa- gation of dislocations and extension of multicrystalline grains. Therefore, by con- trolling the conﬁguration of these thin dislocation regions overlapping with the ingot portion not used for solar cells, i.e., the red zones and cutting kerfs, high-quality ingots with a high yield ratio are achieved. The effectiveness of SMART has been demonstrated through growth of laboratory scale ingots. Figure 14 shows a crystal orientation image map and an etch pit image of the vertical cross section of an ingot grown by SMART. Functional grain bound- aries having the ability to generate dislocations were formed at the periphery of the ingot along the crucible side walls accompanied by those having the ability to block dislocation propagation inside them. In addition, at the center of the ingot, a grain boundary was formed as a model of that which forms at a seed joint. The etch pit image clearly shows that propagation of the dislocations generated by the functional grain boundaries was blocked by other functional grain boundaries. Inside the Quality-controlled region Functional defect Functional defect 111 101 2 3 1 SA 5T T b c d a T SA SA GB GB 100 Fig. 14 (a) Orientation maps of growth direction, (b) the GB plane, (c) an etch pit image, and (d) magniﬁed images taken by an optical microscope. In the orientation maps, the GBs  except for the SA GB  are separated by lines. The number in (d) corresponds to the observed area in (c). The dashed lines show the interface between the unmelted seeds and grown crystals. (From Takahashi et al. 2015) 9 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method 229 functional grain boundaries, there were no clear etch pits from dislocation clusters. In particular, no dislocation clusters were generated at the grain boundary in the center of the ingot. This result suggests that dislocations intentionally introduced contribute to reduced stress during the thermal process of the crystal growth. Thus, the disloca- tions acted as functional defects. Control of Seed Joint Structure: Special Grain Boundaries and Seed Partitions Suppression of dislocation generation from grain boundaries formed at seed joints is a serious issue for mono-like Si. Dislocation generation from grain boundaries also affects the growth of mc-Si. Therefore, a number of studies have examined the mechanism of dislocation generation, as discussed in the previous section. In this chapter, two methods of using seed joint structures are addressed as candidates for next-generation mono-like methods. Hu et al. reported the growth of high-quality mono-like Si withspecial grain boundaries (Hu et al. 2015). Two 870  870  300 mm3 ingots were grown. One conventional (100)-oriented mono-like Si with small-angle grain boundaries at the seed joints. The other with special grain boundaries between the adjacent (100)- oriented seed crystals with a twisted angular deviation of 1045. Figure 15 shows photoluminescence images of the wafers (a13) with small-angle grain boundaries Fig. 15 Photoluminescence images of the wafers from the bottom (a1,b1), middle (a2,b2), and top (a3,b3) of the block of (a) ingot with small angle grain boundaries and (b) ingot with special grain boundaries. (From Hu et al. 2015) 230 K. Kutsukake and (b13) shows that with the special grain boundaries. Considerably fewer dislocation clusters were generated from the special grain boundaries than those from the small angle grain boundaries. As a result, the average conversion efﬁciency of the solar cells was reported to be 18.1%, which is 0.6% higher than the efﬁciency of conventional cells. Although these results are promising, the details of the seed orientation and conﬁguration have not been disclosed. Lan et al. proposed a simple approach usingseed partitions (Lan et al. 2017). Between the seed crystals with the same crystal orientation, thin Si plate seeds with a 30 or  30 tilt angle from both sides of the seed crystals were inserted. As a result, two parallel grain boundaries with 30 or  30 tilt angles were formed at both sides of the thin seed crystals in the grown mono-like Si ingot. Etch pit observations showed that these grain boundaries effectively suppressed dislocation generation. Furthermore, two advantages are emphasized: the ease of seed preparation and the lack of color mismatch. By this method, the main seed crystals have the same three-dimensional crystal orientation. Therefore, the seed preparation is much easier than that for combination seeds with special crystal orientations. Moreover, the same crystal orientation mitigates mismatch of the color of the solar cell surface, which appears after application of an anti-reﬂection coating, as shown in Fig. 16. Fig. 16 Appearances at different view angles for the solar cells made from: (a) partitioned seeds; (b) tilted seeds. (From Lan et al. 2017) 9 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method 231 Mono-Like Growth Without Seed Joints: Large Seed and Mushroom- Type Interface Growth Another idea to suppress dislocation generation from seed joints is simply to rid the seed crystals of dislocation sources, i.e., seed joints. Two methods have been proposed: the use of large seed crystals and growth from small seed crystals. As mentioned previously, the typical size of a seed crystal is almost the same as that of a solar cell wafer, i.e., (15.6 + α)  (15.6 + α) cm2. These seed crystals are prepared from slices perpendicular to the growth direction of the CZ ingots. Gu et al. used rectangular plates cut along the axial direction of CZ columnar ingots as seed crystals for mono-like Si (Gu et al. 2012). The seed crystals were prepared to have a  100 crystal orientation in the growth direction. Dislocation generation was successfully suppressed in the vertical cross-section of the ingot along the longitu- dinal direction of the rectangular seeds. However, in another cross-section perpen- dicular to the longitudinal direction of the rectangular seeds seed joints existed as in the case of seed joints from conventional mono-like ingots. Zhang et al. also proposed the use oflarge rectangular seed crystals; however, they used the 110 crystal orientation as the growth direction of the mono-like ingots (Zhang et al. 2018). They suggested that multiplication of dislocations in the ingot with the 110 growth direction was milder than that with 100 growth direction. Therefore, although the dislocation density at the bottom of the ingot was higher in the ingot with the 110 growth direction than that with 100 growth direction, the total dislocation density in the ingot was reduced by using 110 seed crystals. Furthermore, for applications to solar cell wafers, square column bricks are cut along the 100 crystal orientation, which is perpendicular to both the growth direction of the ingot and the longitudinal direction of the rectangular seeds. Another idea to rid seed crystals of seed joints is to grow the ingot from one small seed crystal. Kakimotos group developed this growth method, so-called mushroom-type interface growth. Numerical simulation modeling of the condi- tions inside the growth furnace revealed characteristics of the mushroom-type interface growth, as well as details of the thermal condition of the growth (Gao et al. 2012). On the basis of the results of this numerical study, the method was applied to growth of a 50-cm2 mono-like ingot (Miyamura et al. 2014). By controlling the shape of the liquid-solid interface, a mono-like crystal was grown from a small seed 20 cm in diameter. A dislocation density of 3  104 cm2 was achieved. Conclusions The mono-like method can provide single crystalline Si ingots using the same facilities currently used for production of mc-Si ingots. Thus, this method has advantages of mc-Si in terms of low cost and high production throughput, and the uniform crystal orientation and high crystalline quality of CZ-Si. However, current 232 K. Kutsukake mono-like Si is intermediate between mc-Si and CZ-Si in terms of crystalline quality and production cost. Many of the issues associated with crystalline quality are related to the crystal growth process of mono-like ingots, such as multi- crystallization, dislocation generation, and impurity contamination. To resolve these problems, advanced mono-like methods have been proposed based on funda- mental studies of crystal growth and defect generation in mono-like Si. Control of crystal orientation and the conﬁguration of the seed crystals show promise as methods for addressing the issues of crystallinity. This chapter reviews functional grain boundaries, SMART, special grain boundaries, seed partitions, large seeds, and one-small seed. In addition to these methods considerable research has been done to develop mono-like Si methods. Although these methods are promising, further investigations of mono-like Si will be necessary. For instance, in the near future, the average dislocation density will become a problem for super-high efﬁciency solar cell application. To address this issue, further studies on seed preparation and optimization of thermal process are needed. Cross-References Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method Acknowledgment The author is very grateful to Professor Kazuo Nakajima from Tohoku Uni- versity for fruitful discussions about the fundamentals of crystal growth and defects generation of mono-like Si. References M. Mrcarica, Photo-Dermatology 19, 28 (2013) F. Jay, D. Muñoz, T. Desrues, E. Pihan, V. Amaral de Oliveira, N. Enjalbert, A. Jouini, Solar Energ. Mater. Solar Cells 130, 690 (2014) A. Jouini, in Abstract of the 10th International Workshop on Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells (CSSC-10) (2018), p. 9 N. Stoddard, B. Wu, L. Witting, M. Wagener, Y. Park, G. Rozgonyi, R. Clark, Solid State Phenom. 1, 131133 (2008) T.F. Ciszek, G.H. Schwuttke, K.H. Yang, J. Cryst. Growth 46, 527 (1979) K.E. Ekstrøm, G. Stokkan, R. Søndenå, H. Dalaker, T. Lehmann, L. Arnberg, M. Di Sabation, Phys. Status Solidi A 212, 2278 (2015) Y.C. Wu, A. Lan, C.F. Yang, C.W. Hsu, C.M. Lu, A. Yang, C.W. Lan, Cryst. Growth Des. 16, 6641 (2016) 9 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method 233 M. Trempa, C. Reimann, J. Friedrich, G. Mueller, A. Krause, L. Sylla, T. Richter, J. Cryst. Growth 405, 131 (2014) I. Takahashi, N. Usami, K. Kutsukake, G. Stokkan, K. Morishita, K. Nakajima, J. Cryst. Growth 312, 897 (2010) K. Jiptner, Y. Miyamura, H. Harada, B. Gao, K. Kakimoto, T. Sekiguchi, Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 24, 1513 (2016) K. Kutsukake, N. Usami, Y. Ohno, Y. Tokumoto, I. Yonenaga, Appl. Phys. Express 6, 025505 (2013) A.L. Endrös, Sol. Energ. Mater. Sol. Cells 72, 109 (2002) M. Kitamura, N. Usami, T. Sugawara, K. Kutsukake, K. Fujiwara, Y. Nose, T. Shishido, K. Nakajima, J. Cryst. Growth 280, 419 (2005) K. Kutsukake, N. Usami, K. Fujiwara, Y. Nose, K. Nakajima, J. Appl. Phys. 101, 063509 (2007a) K. Kutsukake, N. Usami, K. Fujiwara, Y. Nose, T. Sugawara, T. Shishido, K. Nakajima, Mater. Trans. 481, 143 (2007b) T. Hoshikawa, T. Taishi, X. Huang, S. Uda, M. Yamatani, K. Shirasawa, K. Hoshikawa, J. Cryst. Growth 307, 466 (2007) K. Kutsukake, N. Usami, Y. Ohno, Y. Tokumoto, I. Yonenaga, IEEE J. Photovolt. 4, 84 (2014) I. Takahashi, S. Joonwichien, T. Iwata, N. Usami, Appl. Phys. Express 8, 105501 (2015) D. Hu, S. Yuan, L. He, H. Chen, Y. Wan, X. Yu, D. Yang, Solar Energ. Mater Solar Cells 140, 121 (2015) C.Y. Lan, Y.C. Wu, A. Lan, C.F. Yang, C. Hsu, C.M. Lu, A. Yang, C.W. Lan, J. Cryst. Growth 475, 136 (2017) X. Gu, X. Yu, K. Guo, L. Chen, D. Wang, D. Yang, Solar Energ. Mater. Solar Cells 101, 95 (2012) F. Zhang, X. Yu, S. Yuan, L. He, H. Chen, R. Hu, and D. Yang, in Abstract of the 10th International Workshop on Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells (CSSC-10) (2018), p. 19 B. Gao, S. Nakano, H. Harada, Y. Miyamura, T. Sekiguchi, K. Kakimoto, J. Cryst. Growth 352, 47 (2012) Y. Miyamura, H. Harada, K. Jiptner, J. Chen, R.R. Prakash, S. Nakano, B. Gao, K. Kakimoto, T. Sekiguchi, J. Cryst. Growth 401, 133 (2014) 234 K. Kutsukake Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 10 Kazuo Nakajima Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 236 Growth Mechanism of the NOC Method ....................................................... 236 Design of a Furnace with Two Zone Heaters ................................................... 238 Characteristics and Merits of the NOC Method ................................................ 241 Effect of ΔT and ΔTd on the Size of the Low-Temperature Region in the Si Melt .... ....... 241 Growth Rate of Si Ingots Inside Si Melts ...................................................... 242 Growth of Square-Shaped Si Single Bulk Crystals with Large Side-Face Widths ............ 247 Growth of Si Single Ingots with the Large Diameter and Diameter Ratio Using the Cast Furnace ........................................................ 250 Quality of Si Single Ingots Grown Using the Cast Furnace ................................... 252 Distribution of Conversion Efﬁciency of n- and p-Type Solar Cells Prepared by the NOC Method After Furnace Cleaning ................................................................ 258 Applications of the NOC Method ............................................................... 261 Conclusion ....................................................................................... 264 Cross-References ................................................................................ 265 References ....................................................................................... 265 Abstract The noncontact crucible (NOC) method has the potential to be an advanced cast method. It is effective in obtaining Si single ingots with large diameter and volume using cast furnace, and solar cells manufactured with Si obtained this way have high yield and high conversion efﬁciency. Several novel characteristics of this method are explained based on the existence of a large low-temperature region in a Si melt, which is key to realize its enclosing potential as follows. The largest diameter ratio of 0.9 was obtained by expanding the low-temperature region in the Si melt. For p-type solar K. Nakajima (*) Tohoku University, Sendai, Miyagi, Japan e-mail: nakasisc@imr.tohoku.ac.jp  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_14 235 cells, the highest of 19.14% and the average conversion efﬁciencies of 19.0% were obtained for the NOC wafers, using the same solar cell structure and process to obtain the conversion efﬁciency of 19.1% for a p-type Czochralski (CZ) wafers. The present method realized solar cells with conversion efﬁciency and yield as high as those of CZ solar cells using cast furnace for the ﬁrst time. The latest information about the growth of Si ingots using the NOC method is explained. Keywords Melt growth  NOC method  Solar cells  Si single crystals  Growth method  Large diameter  Cast furnace  Conversion efﬁciency  Yield  Low-temperature region Introduction The noncontact crucible (NOC) method was proposed to obtain Si single ingots with large diameter and volume using the cast furnace and resulted in solar cells with high yield and high conversion efﬁciency. This method has several novel characteristics based on the core point that ingots can be grown inside Si melt without contact to crucible wall. A large low-temperature region is intentionally created in the upper- central part of the Si melt to allow natural crystal growth inside of it. As the size of the ingots can be controlled by the low-temperature region, large ingots with a large diameter ratio can be grown using small crucibles. The diameter ratio means the maximum diameter of the ingot divided by the crucible diameter. The largest diameter ratio of 0.9 was obtained by expanding the low-temperature region in the Si melt. p- and n-type Si single ingots were grown for solar cells utilizing merits created by these characteristics. To conﬁrm the quality of the ingots, the etch-pit density (EPD) of dislocations, oxygen concentration of the ingots, and minority carrier lifetime were measured and the conversion efﬁciency of solar cells was determined whether solar cells with the conversion efﬁciency and yield as high as those of Czochralski (CZ) solar cells were obtained by the NOC method. The goal of the NOC method is to obtain uniform large Si single ingots with sufﬁcient quality to build solar cells with high conversion efﬁciency and high yield using a cast furnace. For p-type solar cells prepared using wafers cut from the ingot grown by this method, the highest of 19.14% and the average conversion efﬁciencies of 19.0% were obtained, using the same solar cell structure and process to obtain the conversion efﬁciency of 19.1% for a p-type CZ wafers. Using the cast furnace, solar cells with the conversion efﬁciency and yield as high as those of the CZ solar cells can be obtained by the NOC method for the ﬁrst time. Growth Mechanism of the NOC Method In the NOC method (Nakajima et al. 2012a, b, 2013, 2014a, b, c; Kivambe et al. 2014; Nakajima et al. 2015, 2016a), the Si melt has a large low-temperature region in its upper central part to allow natural crystal growth inside it as shown in Fig. 1 236 K. Nakajima (Nakajima et al. 2017). The low-temperature region means the region in which the melt temperature is kept lower than that of the surrounded melt. It can be established mainly by designing the distribution of heaters in the furnace. Nucleation occurs on the surface of the Si melt by touching a seed crystal on the melt, and an ingot grows inside the Si melt without contact with the crucible wall during cooling the melt. Then, the growing ingot is slowly pulled upward while the ingot grows inside the low-temperature region. As the size of the ingots can be controlled by that of the low-temperature region, large ingots with a large diameter ratio can be grown using small crucibles by expanding the low-temperature region in the Si melt. The NOC method has been deﬁned as a growth method by which a distinct low-temperature region is intentionally established in a Si melt, under the seed. The melt surrounding the low-temperature region prevents the contact and bonding between the crystal and the relatively hot crucible wall. Since the crucible wall is basically above the freezing point, there is not spurious nucleation from the crucible wall. The present method has the below novel characteristics because of the exis- tence of the low-temperature region in the Si melt: (1) An single ingot can be grown inside the Si melt without contact to the crucible wall. The dislocation density in the ingot is low because of low residual stress. (2) An ingot with a large diameter ratio of 0.9 can be realized by expanding the low-temperature region in the Si melt. The single ingot with a large diameter and a large volume can be grown using a cast furnace. (3) Millisecond lifetime can be obtained after getting because the purity of the ingot is high not to use Si3N4 coating on the crucible wall. This method is similar to the Kyropoulos method, in which crystals are mainly grown by the removal of heat from a Si melt through a seed holder (Bliss 2004). The Kyropoulos method has mainly been used for the growth of oxide crystals such Noncontact Crucible Method is a novel method grown inside a Si melt Pulling Small crucible Horizontal growth rate Ingot Low temperature region Without Si3N4 coating Si melt Innovative characteristics in principle Existence of the low-temperature region in the Si melt Growth of an ingot without contact to the crucible wall (Low dislocation density)    Growth of ingots with large diameter ratio (Growth of ingots with large diameter and large volume using cast crucibles) High purity owing to no Si3N4 coating (High lifetime---several millisecond) Seed Fig. 1 Schematic illustration of the NOC method with novel characteristics that originate from its key feature that ingots can be grown inside Si melt without contact to crucible wall owing to a low-temperature region (From Nakajima et al. (2017)) 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 237 as sapphire (Demina et al. 2007). Ravishankar attempted to grow Si ingots using the Kyropoulos method, but the growing ingots came in contact with the crucible wall because a low-temperature region was not clearly established in the Si melt (Ravishankar 1985). The clear low-temperature region is especially required for the growth of a Si ingot inside the Si melt. The deﬁnition of the Kyropoulos method in a broad sense is generally used as a growth method to grow an ingot inside a melt. In this broad sense, the present method belongs to the Kyropoulos method. In contrast to the CZ method (Czochralski 1917), the NOC method grows an ingot inside the Si melt and enables the control of the ingot shape by regulating the degree and distribution of undercooling in the melt or the shape and size of the low-temperature region in the melt. In this method, the shape of the growing interface in the Si deep melt was generally convex in the growth direction. Design of a Furnace with Two Zone Heaters For this method, a furnace with three zone heaters were usually used as shown in Fig. 2a (Nakajima et al. 2016a). In the furnace with three zone heaters, the ﬁrst heater is mainly used to cool the Si melt in the crucible to grow an ingot by controlling. The second heater is mainly used to heat the crucible wall and maintain its heat. The third heater is used to supply more thermal energy to the Si melt to keep its temperature higher than the melting point of Si. The three zone heaters have each role to obtain a large low-temperature region in a Si melt. For practical use, a furnace with two zone heaters (NOC Furnace 600: Dai-ich Kiden Corporation Limit.) was developed to design as a simple furnace as shown in Fig. 2b (Nakajima et al. 2016a). The ﬁrst zone heater is a cylindrical carbon heater and the second zone heater is a disk-shaped carbon heater, which is set horizontally and below the ﬁrst zone heater. The inner diameter of the ﬁrst Three zone NOC furnace a b Two zone NOC furnace 1st zone 2nd zone 3rd zone Tc1 Tc2 Tc3 melt melt Crucible Cooling melt Heating crucible wall Heating crucible wall and supplying thermal energy Tc2 Tc1 1st zone Cooling melt 2nd zone Supplying thermal energy Carbon heat holder Fig. 2 (a) NOC furnace with three zone heaters, (b) NOC furnace with two zone heaters which has a carbon heat holder to maintain the heat of the crucible wall. These NOC furnaces have three roles such as cooling the Si melt, heating the crucible wall and supplying thermal energy to the Si melt assigned for each zone-heater (From Nakajima et al. (2016a)) 238 K. Nakajima heater is 89 cm and the diameter of the second heater is 65 cm. The power of the ﬁrst and second heaters is 140 and 60 kW, respectively. To satisfy the three roles using the furnace with only two zone heaters, a carbon heat holder was applied to keep the temperature of the crucible wall high as shown in Fig. 2b. In Fig. 2, Tc1, Tc2, and Tc3 are the thermocouples of the ﬁrst, second, and third heaters, respectively. Figure 3 shows a schematic illustration of the relationship between ΔT (K) and ΔTd (K) for the system with two zone heaters (Nakajima et al. 2016a). ΔT is the temperature reduction of a Si melt deﬁned as the difference between the starting temperature at which an initial crystal is ﬁrst observed to start growing from the seed crystal and the ﬁnal temperature at the end of the cooling. ΔTd is the temperature reduction of a Si melt deﬁned as the difference between the initial temperature before cooling near the crucible wall and the melting point of Si. In the initial stage before cooling the Si melt, the melt temperature is equal to the melting point of Si near the center of the Si melt and it has a steep slope near the crucible wall. After cooling using only the ﬁrst zone heater by ΔT1, a low temperature region is created in the Si melt and an ingot simultaneously grows inside the region. In the second stage, the Si melt is cooled using only the second zone heater, and the melt temperature near the crucible wall is also reduced owing to the carbon heat holder. Tw2 is the melt temperature close to the crucible wall after cooling by ΔT2. ΔT is estimated as the sum of ΔT1 and ΔT2 as follows, ΔT ¼ ΔT1 þ ΔT2, (1) Ta1 Ta2 Melt surface Melt temperature, T Ingot (Corresponds to low- temperature region) Tw1 Tw2 10 K MP Crucible wall Supercooling limit Si melt Distance from center of Si melt, d 0 (seed) (Wall) Ta3 DT2 DTd DT1 DT2 DT Fig. 3 Schematic illustration of the relationship between ΔT and ΔTd. In the initial stage, the Si melt was cooled from Ta1 to Ta2 (ΔT1 = Ta1  Ta2) using only the ﬁrst heater, and the melt temperature near the crucible wall remained at Tw1. In the second stage, the Si melt was cooled from Ta2 to Ta3 (ΔT2 = Ta2  Ta3) using only the second heater, and the melt temperature near the crucible wall was also reduced from Tw1 to Tw2 owing to the carbon heat holder. ΔT is estimated as the sum of ΔT1 and ΔT2 (ΔT = ΔT1 + ΔT2). ΔTd is deﬁned as the temperature difference between Tw1 and Ta1 (ΔTd = Tw1  Ta1 = Tw1  Mp) (From Nakajima et al. (2016a)) 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 239 where ΔT1 is deﬁned as the difference between the starting temperature, at which the initial crystal is ﬁrst observed to start growing from the seed crystal just after reducing the temperature of the ﬁrst heater, and the ﬁnal temperature at the end of the cooling, and ΔT2 is deﬁned as the difference between the initial temperature at the start of cooling by reducing the temperature of the second heater near the crucible wall and the ﬁnal temperature at the end of the cooling using the second heater. ΔT and ΔTd are the most important parameters determining the size of the low-temperature region. For the furnace with two zone heaters shown in Fig. 2b, the carbon heat holder was used to keep the temperature near the crucible wall much higher than the melting point of Si. The heat holder can contain an entire growth crucible. The heat holder has an outer diameter of 55 cm and a height of 21 cm. The heat holders with inner diameters of 35, 42, and 52 cm are used for crucibles with diameters of 33, 40, and 50 cm, respectively. The wall of the heat holder is very thick (5.510.0 cm) to retain the thermal energy from the second heater and prevent the cooling of the crucible wall. This heat holder is necessary for the NOC method when the furnace with two zone heaters is used. Owing to the existence of the heat holder, both the Si melt and the crucible wall are simultaneously cooled by reducing the temperature of the second heater. This cooling promotes dendrite growth from the crucible wall when ΔT2 largely increases, as discussed in detail later. Figure 4 shows the power (kW) of the ﬁrst and second heaters as a function of growth time (min) (Nakajima et al. 2016a). First, the temperature of the ﬁrst heater was reduced to obtain a cooling rate of 0.2 K/min and to start the growth of an ingot. The power of the ﬁrst heater was gradually decreased. The second heater was used 0 10 30 40 50  Power (kW) Growth time (min) 0 60 120 180 240 Total power Switching point ΔT1 ΔT2 Fig. 4 Power (kW) of the ﬁrst and second zone heaters as a function of growth time (min) (From Nakajima et al. (2016a)) 240 K. Nakajima constantly to keep the temperature of the crucible wall higher than the melting point of Si. Therefore, at that time, the power of the second heater was gradually increased to supply thermal energy to the crucible wall and the Si melt as the power of the ﬁrst heater was decreased. However, the temperature of the second heater was kept constant when that of the ﬁrst heater was reduced. The total power was also gradually decreased during crystal growth. At the switching point, the temperature of the ﬁrst heater was kept constant and the temperature of the second heater was reduced to keep the diameter of the ingot constant. At that time, the power of the ﬁrst heater was gradually increased to maintain the supply of thermal energy to the crucible wall and the Si melt as the power of the second heater was decreased. ΔT1 and ΔT2 correspond to the temperature reductions caused by the power reduc- tion of the ﬁrst and second heaters, respectively. ΔT1 and ΔT2 also correspond to those deﬁned in Fig. 3. Characteristics and Merits of the NOC Method The present method has several novel characteristics because of existence of a low-temperature region in the Si melt. Figure 1 shows the characteristics and merits pulled out from them. The NOC method has the following characteristics in princi- ple. (1) Single ingots with low stress can be grown without contact to the crucible wall. (2) Single ingots with large diameter ratio can be grown inside the Si melt. (3) Single ingots with high purity can be grown in the exquisite environment of the furnace. Then, several merits are derived from these characteristics. (1) Low dislo- cation density can be realized under low stress without necking technique (Dash 1959) because the growth interface is convex in the growth direction and disloca- tions move to the periphery from the center of the ingots during growth (Nakajima et al. 2016a). (2) Single ingots with the large diameter and volume can be grown because the high buoyancy from the Si melt helps the large ingot to remain in the Si melt (Nakajima et al. 2016a). (3) Single ingots with minority carrier lifetime on the order of several ms can be grown owing to high purity growth (Nakajima et al. 2015, 2016b). (4) Single ingots with low oxygen concentration can be obtained because of small convection in the Si melt (Nakajima et al. 2016a). These merits can be effectively applied as an advanced cast method to obtain large single ingots with sufﬁcient quality to prepare p-type solar cells with the yield and conversion efﬁ- ciency as high as those of CZ solar cells. Effect of DT and DTd on the Size of the Low-Temperature Region in the Si Melt The diameter of ingots grown by the NOC method is determined by the size of the low-temperature region in the Si melt, which is mainly determined by ΔT during crystal growth and the temperature slope in the Si melt. In the NOC furnace, the melt temperature near the crucible wall must be kept higher than that in the 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 241 low-temperature region to prevent crystal growth from the wall as shown in Fig. 3 (Nakajima et al. 2016a). In the initial stage before cooling the Si melt, the melt temperature is equal to the melting point of Si, Mp (1414 C), near the center of the Si melt immediately below the seed crystal. It has a steep slope near the crucible wall which has much higher temperature that Mp. The slope becomes much steeper near the crucible wall as ΔTd increases. Therefore, ΔTd is a key parameter determining the temperature gradient in the Si melt and obtaining a large ingot inside the crucible because we can use a larger ΔTwith a larger ΔTd. The most important point to design the furnace is to devise the method to enlarge ΔTd. In the ﬁrst stage, the Si melt was cooled from Ta1 (=Mp) to Ta2 (ΔT1 = Ta1  Ta2) using only the ﬁrst zone heater, and the melt temperature near the wall remained at Tw1 during cooling. Here, Ta1 is the initial melt temperature immediately below the seed set on the central axis, and it corresponds to the starting growth temperature from the seed or the melting point of Si. Ta2 is the melt temperature after cooling by ΔT1. Ta1 and Ta2 were monitored using Tc1 for the ﬁrst zone heater. Tw1 is the initial melt temperature close to the crucible wall. A low- temperature region was created in the Si melt by this cooling and an ingot simultaneously grew inside the region. In the second stage, the Si melt was cooled from Ta2 to Ta3 (ΔT2 = Ta2  Ta3) using only the second zone heater, and the melt temperature near the crucible wall was also reduced from Tw1 to Tw2 owing to the effect of the carbon heat holder. Tw2 is the melt temperature close to the crucible wall after cooling by ΔT2 (ΔT2 ﬃTw1  Tw2). ΔTd is deﬁned as the temperature difference between Tw1 and Ta1 (ΔTd = Tw1  Ta1 = Tw1  Mp). When sufﬁcient large ΔTd can be established to obtain a large ΔT2, the large ΔT2 and ΔT can be used before ΔT2 reaches the supercooling limit of 10 K below Mp (Fujiwara et al. 2008). When ΔT2 becomes larger than the sum of (ΔTd + 10 K), dendrite crystals appear from the crucible wall. Growth Rate of Si Ingots Inside Si Melts For expanding the present method for practical use, a high-speed growth is required for obtaining large ingots with a constant diameter. The horizontal and vertical growth rates of the NOC method are determined by the expanding rate of the low-temperature region in a Si melt, as shown in Figs. 1 and 3. The expanding rate is mainly determined by the cooling rate of the Si melt. Therefore, it is very important to experimentally determine the growth rate that can be attained by increasing the cooling rate. The horizontal growth rate along the melt surface was determined in the 110 and 100 directions as a function of the cooling rate (Nakajima et al. 2014c). In this work, the cooling rates of 0.2, 0.3 and 0.4 K/min were used. At ﬁrst for several cooling rates, the growth length was determined as a function of the growth time during cooling by ΔT. The growth time increases as ΔT increases. The growth length on the top surface of an ingot was determined by making marks in it (Nakajima et al. 2014c). Figure 5a shows an n-type ingot with a size of 20.3  20.3 cm2, a diagonal length of 25.0 cm, a mass of 2960 g (solidiﬁcation ratio: 242 K. Nakajima 41%), and a thickness of 4.0 cm. The ingot was grown using a crucible with 28 cm diameter. The thickness of the Si melt was 5.0 cm and the cooling rate was 0.3 K/min. The growth process of this ingot is shown in Fig. 5b. The ingot was pulled upward by 0.3, 0.4, 0.4, and 0.2 cm at ΔT = 17, 22, 27, and 30 K with a pulling rate of 2 mm/ min, respectively. The purpose of making marks is to determine the growth length as a function of ΔT or the growth time. The growth rate was determined by the ratio between the growth length and the growth time. The top surface of the ingot had four steps, which were located at distances of 5.2, 6.8, 9.0, and 10.0 cm in the 110 direction and at distances of 7.1, 8.0, 11.6, and 12.3 cm in the 100 direction from the center of the seed. The growth times for these growth lengths were 57, 73, 90, and 100 min, respectively. At ΔT = 30 K, the ingot was continuously pulled upward with a pulling rate of 0.4 mm/min without cooling the melt. The ingot had a square-like shape because the growth rate in the 100 direction was larger than that in the 110 direction. Figures 5c, d shows the top surface of the ingot in the 110 and 100 directions, respectively. The top surface has four steps corresponding to the growth process shown in Fig. 5b. The side face in the 110 direction was ﬂat, but the 100 corner had a fan-shaped face (Nakajima et al. 2014a). The side-face widths were 10.3 and 10.7 cm for this ingot, which were the side lengths corresponded to the step at ΔT = 17 K shown in Fig. 5c, d. a c d 10 cm ΔT= 30 27 22 17K ΔT=30 27 22 17K b 10 mm 4 mm 4 mm Surface of ingot 2 mm ΔT=17 K ΔT=22 K ΔT=27 K ΔT=30 K Seed Ingot Fig. 5 (a) n-Type ingot with a square-like shape of size 20.3  20.3 cm2. The top surface has four steps corresponding to the growth process. (b) Growth process of this ingot for the purpose of making marks to determine the growth length. (c) Top surface of the ingot in the 110 direction. (d) Top surface of the ingot in the 100 direction (From Nakajima et al. (2014c)) 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 243 The side-face width was deﬁned as the side length of the largest square in the four- cornered pattern on the top surface of the ingots (Nakajima et al. 2014a). Figure 6 shows the growth length as a function of the growth time in the 110 direction (Nakajima et al. 2014c). The growth length almost linearly increased with the growth time, and the growth rate, given by the slope, increased with the cooling rate. From these results, the growth rate was determined to be 0.6, 1.0, and 1.5 mm/min for the cooling rates of 0.2, 0.3, and 0.4 K/min, respectively. Figure 7 shows the growth length as a function of the growth time in the 100 direction (Nakajima et al. 2014c). The growth rate was determined to be 0.8, 1.3, and 1.9 mm/min for the cooling rates of 0.2, 0.3, and 0.4 K/min, respectively. The growth rate in the 100 direction was about 1.3 times higher than that in the 110 direction. The horizontal growth rates in the 110 and 100 0 5 10 15 20 0 50 100 150 200 250 Cooling growth time (min) Growth length (cm) Cooling rate 0.2 K/min Cooling rate 0.3 K/min Cooling rate 0.4 K/min Growth direction 110 Surface growth rate :0.6 mm/min :1.0 mm/min :1.5 mm/min Fig. 6 Surface or horizontal growth length in the 110 direction as a function of the growth time. The growth rate was determined from the slope (From Nakajima et al. (2014c)) 0 5 10 15 20 0 50 100 150 200 250 Surface growth rate :0.8 mm/min :1.3 mm/min :1.9 mm/min Growth time (min) Growth length (cm) Growth direction 100 Cooling rate 0.2 K/min Cooling rate 0.3 K/min Cooling rate 0.4 K/min Fig. 7 Surface or horizontal grown length in the 100 direction as a function of the growth time. The growth rate was determined from the slope (From Nakajima et al. (2014c)) 244 K. Nakajima directions increased with the cooling rate. A high growth rate of about 2 mm/min was obtained in the 100 direction for the cooling rate of 0.4 K/min. This growth rate is much higher than that of the cast method and is as high as that of the CZ method. The relationship between the growth length and ΔT was determined in the 110 direction. The growth length almost linearly depended on ΔT regardless of the cooling rate, so it was simply determined by only ΔT. A higher cooling rate can shorten the growth time required for cooling the same ΔT. Therefore, the size of ingot can be obtained using the shorter growth time. In the NOC method, the vertical growth rate toward the bottom of the crucible does not depend on the pulling rate like the CZ method. The vertical growth rate depends on the vertically expanding rate of the low-temperature region in the melt. It almost corresponds to the maximum pulling rate at which an ingot can be pulled upward above the surface of the Si melt. During the growth of a crystal along the surface of the Si melt, the crystal also grew inside the melt in the vertical direction. Just when the ingot came in contact with the bottom of the crucible, the ingot swung in the melt, which could be directly observed through the windows of the furnace chamber. The vertical growth rate was determined by observation of the ﬁrst swing of the ingots at the initial stage of growth, and it was estimated from the depth of the melt and the growth time between the start time of the surface growth from the seed crystal and the collision time at which the ingot swung. Figure 8 shows the vertical growth rate as a function of the depth of the Si melt used for the growth of the ingots when the cooling rate was 0.2 K/min (Nakajima et al. 2014c). The vertical growth rate tended to increase with the depth of the Si melt even though the data were scattered, and it was determined to be 0.30.6 mm/min. It is desirable to clarify the maximum growth rate for the present method. The growth rate can be expressed as V cm=min ð Þ ¼ dr=dt ¼ dΔT=dt ð Þ= dΔT=dr ð Þ ¼ dΔT=dt ð Þ=GTs: (2) Here, V (cm/min) is the growth rate, r (cm) is the grown length at ΔT, and t (min) is the growth time required to obtain the growth length. dΔT/dt is the cooling rate, which is expressed in terms of the temperature reduction, and dΔT/dr is the temperature gradient near the surface of the melt on the growth interface when expanding crystal along the surface of the Si melt, which is expressed by GT s (K/cm). In the NOC method, the temperature gradient across the crucible near the surface of the Si melt was almost constant when the low-temperature region was expanding because the side-face width (1012 cm) was almost constant for ΔT = 30 K regardless the cooling rate. As Kuroda et al. 1980a reported, the side-face width, d (cm), of a square-shaped crystal can be expressed as (Nakajima et al. 2014a; Kuroda et al. 1980a), d / ΔT=GT s: (3) 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 245 The result that the side-face width was almost constant at the same ΔT means that GT s was also almost constant regardless of the cooling rate. Therefore, as indicated by Eq. 2, the growth rate is almost proportional to the cooling rate. For the practical use of ingots for solar cells, it is important to keep the initial size of the ingot constant during crystal growth and to grow the long ingot with a constant diameter. Figure 9a shows an n-type Si single ingot with a diagonal length of 23 cm, a mass of 6440 g (solidiﬁcation ratio: 64%), and a thickness of 7.0 cm (Nakajima et al. 2014c). The ingot was grown using a crucible with 33 cm diameter, a Si melt depth of 5 cm, and a cooling rate of 0.4 K/min. The ingot was grown while cooling the melt by ΔT = 30 K without pulling. To determine the horizontal growth rate, the ingot was rapidly pulled upward by 0.5 cm at ΔT = 25 K with a pulling rate of 2 mm/ min for the purpose of making marks. The top surface of the ingot had a step located at distances of 8.0 cm in the 110 direction and 8.5 cm in the 100 direction from the center of the seed crystal. The growth time for these growth lengths was 58 min. The growth rates were 1.4 and 1.5 mm/min in the 110 and 100 directions, respectively. At ΔT = 30 K, the ingot was grown while pulling it upward with a pulling rate of 0.4 mm/min. The ingot was circular because the side-face width was very short (4.85.1 cm) as shown in Fig. 9b. A fan-shaped face appeared in the 100 direction at the point shown by the red arrow; thus, the top surface of the ingot has circular corners in the 100 direction. As shown in Fig. 9c, the diameter of the ingot remained constant during pulling with a high cooling rate of 0.4 K/min. The high cooling rate increases the horizontal growth rate because the melt temperature markedly decreased by it, and prevents the reduction of the diameter. The same diagonal length of the top surface of ingots was obtained for cooling rates between 0.2 and 0.4 K/min. Therefore, we can use a larger cooling rate to obtain ingots with the same diameter. The growth rate of the present method increases with the cooling rate. The limit of the cooling rate depends on the heat capacity of the furnace. For the present furnace, the high cooling rate sometimes caused overcooling below the setting temperature. For example, during the surface growth of the ingot shown in Fig. 9a, the cooling was occasionally 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5 5.5 6 Depth of Si melt (cm) Vertical growth rate (mm/min) Cooling rate: 0.2 K/min Fig. 8 Vertical growth rate as a function of the depth of the Si melt used for the growth of ingots when the cooling rate was 0.2 K/min. The solid line was inserted as a linear least squares ﬁt for equally weighted data (From Nakajima et al. (2014c)) 246 K. Nakajima stopped at ΔT = 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30 K to prevent the overcooling of the furnace. The control of the overcooling of the furnace was also effective for keeping the initial diameter constant during crystal growth as shown in Fig. 9c. Therefore, the diameter of the ingot remained constant during pulling with a high cooling rate of 0.4 K/min. From these results, this furnace has suitable heat capacity to increase the cooling rate to above 0.4 K/min, at which the horizontal growth rate will be higher than 2 mm/min. In the case that GT s is not constant, the growth rate strongly depends on the temperature gradient in the Si melt as indicated by Eq. 2. When the temperature gradient is larger, the melt temperature has a steep slope near the crucible wall as shown in Fig. 3. Therefore, it is more difﬁcult to signiﬁcantly expand the low-temperature region in the Si melt. The growth rate is also lower for a larger temperature gradient in the Si melt. To obtain ingots with a diameter as large as the crucible diameter, it is important to select a low temperature gradient in the Si melt because a low-temperature region can largely expand in it. Growth of Square-Shaped Si Single Bulk Crystals with Large Side- Face Widths The growth of square-shaped or rectangular Si single crystals by the CZ method and the ﬂoating zone (FZ) method (Ratnieks et al. 2003) has been reported by several researchers (Muiznieks et al. 2006; Kuroda et al. 1980b; Rudolph et al. 2011; Diameter:23 cm Side-face width: 4.85.1 cm Height: 7 cm a c b Side-face width Fan-shaped face Fig. 9 (a) n-Type ingot with a circular shape. (b) Top surface of the ingot with short side-face widths and fan-shaped faces in the 100 direction. A fan-shaped face appeared at the point shown by the red arrow. (c) Ingot with a diameter that remained constant during pulling with a high cooling rate of 0.4 K/min because the horizontal growth rate increased with increasing cooling rate and the melt temperature markedly decreased (From Nakajima et al. (2014c)) 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 247 Rudolph 2012; Miller et al. 2012). Rudolph and coworkers prepared rectangular Si single bulk crystals using a traveling magnetic ﬁeld (TMF) to stabilize the radial temperature gradient in the Si melt (Rudolph et al. 2011; Rudolph 2012). The square wafers are effective for solar cells because the cutting loss from a circular cross section is 36% larger than that from a square-shaped cross section. The square- shaped single ingots are effective to reduce wafer cost and increase yield of materials. The growth of square-shaped Si single ingots was demonstrated using the NOC method. To obtain large square-shaped single ingots, the side-face width of the four- cornered pattern (Rudolph 2012) appearing on the top surface of the ingots should be much largely increased. Rudolph et al. named the side-facet width (Rudolph et al. 2011) as the side-face width. For the CZ growth method, Kuroda et al. reported that the growth of square-shaped crystals could be explained by supercooling occurring in the radial direction of the ingots and the radial temperature gradient near the growing interface (Kuroda et al. 1980b). Using numerical modeling, Miller et al. reported that a small radial temperature gradient near the melt surface and a large vertical temperature gradient below the crystals are both important for the growth of square-shaped crystals by forming {110} faces (Miller et al. 2012). Rudolph and coworkers used a TMF to obtain a small radial temperature gradient for the growth of Si bulk crystals with a quadratic cross section, and they obtained an ingot with a maximum area of 9.1  9.1 cm2 and a side-face width of 5.6 cm (Rudolph et al. 2011; Rudolph 2012). This side-face width was not long enough to obtain signiﬁcantly large ingots with a square shape, even though a 15-cm fused silica crucible and 2 kg of Si feedstock were used for their growth. Factors that affect the side-face width may include the radial temperature gradient, the degree of supercooling, the quality of crystals, the size of crucibles, and so forth. These factors were experimentally studied by growing Si single ingots with a four-cornered pattern using the NOC method without the use of a TMF. The ingots were grown in a low-temperature region in Si melts. Figure 10a, b shows a circular n-type ingot grown using a crucible with a diameter of 33 cm and the four-cornered pattern on its top surface, respectively, when ΔT was 45 K (Nakajima et al. 2014a). The ingot weighed 5,320 g and had a diameter of 19.5 cm and a height of 8.2 cm. Figure 10c shows a crystallographic image of a four-cornered pattern grown from a Si (100) seed crystal, along with the top surface of a circular Si ingot. The top surface of the ingot clearly showed a four-cornered pattern with four {111} faces with macrosteps (ms {111}) and four {110} side faces (Zulehner 1983; Borle et al. 1971). The size of the square-shaped ingots was basically determined by the side- face width. As shown in Fig. 10b, the growth in the 100 direction stopped at the point shown by the red arrow, but the {110} side faces of the four-cornered pattern continued to grow from this point. From this point, fan-shaped {110} faces with macrosteps (ms {110}) appeared on the four corners of the four-cornered pattern, which bordered on two {111} faces with macrosteps, as shown by the yellow lines. The {110} side-face width of the four-cornered pattern was determined at this point as shown in Fig. 10c. The side- face width of the ingot was 6.26.5 cm. Figure 10d shows an as-cut cross section cut from 1.4 cm below the top surface. No grain boundaries were observed in the cross section, and the surface orientation of the entire cross section was found to be (100). 248 K. Nakajima Figure 11a shows an n-type single bulk crystal with a square shape grown using a crucible with a diameter of 17 cm when ΔT was 10.9 K (Nakajima et al. 2014a). The ingot weighed 520 g and had a size of 10.1  10.1 cm2 (with a diagonal length of 14.3 cm) and had a height of 2.5 cm. The side-face width was 6.2 cm. Figure 11b shows 100 corners of the ingot with fan-shaped faces. The growth in the 100 direction stopped at the points indicated by the red arrows, and fan-shaped {110} faces with macrosteps (ms {110}) appeared from these points as shown by the yellow lines. Figure 11c shows an n-type single bulk crystal with a perfect square shape grown using a crucible with a diameter of 17 cm when ΔT was 10.5 K. The perfect square shape means that the side length of the top surface of the square-shaped ingot is equal to the side-face width of the four-cornered pattern on the top surface of the ingot. The single bulk crystal with a perfect square shape has a four-cornered pattern without any fan-shaped {110} faces. The ingot weighed 260 g and had a size of 10.9  11.0 cm2 (with a diagonal length of 15.5 cm) and had a height of 1.0 cm. The side-face width was 10.911.0 cm. The ingot shown in Fig. 11c was grown after the growth of a long see. Figure 11d shows a  100 corner of the single ingot that had a perfect square shape without any fan-shaped {110} faces with macrosteps. Comparing Fig. 11b, d, it can be inferred that to grow large square-shaped single bulk crystals with a long ms {111} 100 110 a b c d ms {110} Fan-shaped face Diameter: 19.5 cm ms (011) ms (101) ms (111) [110] Side face width [100] [010] (110) seed (110) ms (111) [110] ms (111) ms (101) ms (011) ms (111) [110] [100] [110] [010] Fig. 10 (a) n-Type ingot grown using a crucible with a diameter of 33 cm. The diameter of the ingot was 19.5 cm. (b) Four-cornered pattern on the top surface of the ingot. (c) Crystallographic image of a four-cornered pattern grown from a (100) seed crystal. (d) As-cut cross section cut 1.4 cm below the top surface (From Nakajima et al. (2014a)) 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 249 side-face width, it is very important to obtain a perfect 100 corner. The maximum diagonal length of the present square-shaped ingots was as large as 91% of the crucible diameter. The side-face width depended on the temperature reduction ΔTand increased with 1/ΔT (Nakajima et al. 2014a). The present method has the potential to grow large square-shaped Si single bulk crystals with long side-face widths when a large low- temperature region is maintained while ΔT is kept small. Growth of Si Single Ingots with the Large Diameter and Diameter Ratio Using the Cast Furnace For the reduction of production cost of Si ingots, it is effective to grow large ingots using small crucibles. To conﬁrm the possibility of growing ingots with, a diam- eter as large as the crucible diameter, several Si ingots with different diameters, and diameter ratios were grown with different ΔT. Crucibles with different sizes were used to compare the ΔT dependence of the diameter and the diameter ratio. To reduce the melt temperature near the center of the Si melt, it was effective to cool the melt only using the ﬁrst zone heater. The diameter ratio of ingots was mainly determined by ΔT of the ﬁrst heater and not strongly affected by that of the second heater. Figure 12 shows the diameter ratio as a function of the total Fan-shaped face 10.1  10.1 cm2 ms {111} 100 110 10.9  11 cm2 a b c d Fig. 11 (a) n-Type square-shaped single bulk crystal grown using a crucible with a diameter of 17 cm. It had a size of 10.1  10.1 cm2 (with a diagonal length of 14.3 cm) and a height of 2.5 cm. The (110) side-face width was 6.2 cm. (b) 100 corners of the ingot with fan-shaped faces. (c) n-Type single bulk crystal with a perfect square shape grown using a crucible with a diameter of 17 cm. The dimensions of the square were 10.9  11.0 cm2 (with a (110) side- face width of 11 cm and a diagonal length of 15.5 cm). (d) 100 corner of the ingot that had a perfect square shape without any fan-shaped faces (From Nakajima et al. (2014a)) 250 K. Nakajima temperature reduction, ΔT (Nakajima et al. 2016a). The diameter ratio increases with ΔT regardless of the crucible diameter. This tendency is very effective to obtain an ingot with a large diameter because a larger diameter can be obtained only using a larger crucible at a same ΔT. The diameter ratio becomes saturated when ΔT is large because the fringe of the ingots becomes close to the hotter crucible wall as the diameter ratio increases. The largest diameter ratio of 0.9 was obtained by expanding the low-temperature region in the Si melt. Therefore, if the same size of a crucible (60 cm diameter) used for the CZ method, the NOC method can grow an ingot with 54 cm diameter. Figure 13 shows n-type single ingots Diameter ratio Crucibles 33 cm Crucibles 40 cm Crucibles 50 cm Diameter ratio of CZ method 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Total temperature reduction, Δ (K) Fig. 12 Diameter ratio of n- type ingots as a function of ΔT. The diameter ratio increases with ΔT regardless of the crucible diameter. A diameter ratio of 0.9 can be obtained by expanding the low-temperature region in the Si melt (From Nakajima et al. (2016a)) (NOC-3) Si bulk crystal (single crystal) Crucible diameter :40 cm Maximum diameter :32.2 cm Diameter ratio : 0.80 Side face width : 17.3 cm Mass : 8.05 kg ΔT : 53.5 a b (NOC-4) Si bulk crystal (single crystal) Crucible diameter : 50 cm Maximum diameter : 35.0 cm Diameter ratio : 0.70 Side face width : 6.0 cm Mass: 13.3 kg ΔT : 48.1 K (NOC-5) Si bulk crystal (single crystal) Crucible diameter: 50 cm Maximum diameter: 45.0 cm Diameter ratio : 0.90 Side face width : 5.0 cm Mass: 22.7 kg ΔT : 69.3 K c Fig. 13 n-Type bulk crystals (NOC-3, 4 and 5) grown using crucibles of (a) 40 and, (b) and (c) 50 cm diameter. The diameters of the ingots (a), (b) and (c) were 32.2, 35.0 and 45.0 cm, respectively. The diameter ratios were 0.80, 0.70 and 0.90, respectively. Using a Si melt with a depth of 7 cm, the lengths were 9.5, 9.0 and 13.0 cm, respectively (From Nakajima et al. (2016a)) 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 251 (NOC-3, 4 and 5), in which an ingot (a) was grown using a crucible of 40 cm diameter and ingots (b) and (c) were grown using crucibles of 50 cm diameter (Nakajima et al. 2016a). The maximum diameters of the ingots (a), (b), and (c) were 32.2, 35.0, and 45.0 cm, respectively. The maximum diameter of the ingots increases with ΔT. The maximum diameter of the ingot grown using a 40- or 50-cm-diameter crucible was larger than that of ingots grown using a 33-cm- diameter crucible even at the same ΔT. The diameter ratios of these ingots were 0.80, 0.70, and 0.90, respectively. When the depth of the Si melts was 7 cm, the lengths of the ingots (a), (b), and (c) were 9.5, 9.0, and 13.0 cm, respectively. The maximum values of ΔT were 53.5, 48.1, and 69.3 K, respectively. The largest diameter of this ingot (NOC-5) was 45 cm when using a 50-cm-diameter crucible. For the growth of such large ingots, the melt temperature should be kept stable not to generate large local temperature ﬂuctuation in the melt. The local temperature ﬂuctuation should be kept lower than 10 K. If the local ﬂuctuation of larger than 10 K will appear in front of the growing interface, some dendrite crystals will appear from the interface during growth and the ingot will be multicrystalline as shown in Fig. 14 (see Chap. 8, Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method). From a cross section of the ingot NOC-5, we can get four wafers required for regular-size solar cells. The growth of such large ingots is effective to reduce wafer cost and increase yield of materials. The growth parameters and crystal sizes for these ingots are listed in Table 1 (Nakajima et al. 2017). Quality of Si Single Ingots Grown Using the Cast Furnace The etch-pit density (EPD) of dislocations, oxygen concentration, and minority carrier lifetime are important parameters to determine the solar cell performance. To evaluate the EPD in a cross section of each ingot, the surface of the cross section Si multicrystal with dendrites Crucible diameter 50 cm Maximum diameter 45.0 cm Diameter ratio : 0.90 Mass 19.0 kg ΔT : 64.0 K Fig. 14 Si multicrystalline ingot with some dendrite crystals. The dendrite crystals appeared in front of the growth interface during growth owing to the local temperature ﬂuctuation of larger than 10 K 252 K. Nakajima Table 1 Growth parameters, crystal sizes and impurity concentrations for grown ingots Type ΔT (K) ΔT1 (K) ΔT2 (K) Crucible diameter (cm) Crystal mass (g) Crystal diameter (cm) Crystal diameter ratio Crystal length (cm) C (1015 cm3) N (1015 cm3) NOC-1 n 54.0 46.0 8.0 33 5,850 26.6 0.80 10.0 14.0 0.8 NOC-2 n 55.6 45.6 10.0 40 10,850 33.5 0.83 13.0 6.6 0.55 NOC-3 n 53.5 44.6 8.9 40 8,050 32.2 0.80 8.3 2.4 0.082 NOC-4 n 48.1 38.1 10.0 50 13,300 35.0 0.70 9.0   NOC-5 n 69.3 55.1 14.2 50 22,700 45.0 0.90 13.0   NOC-6 p 33.1 33.1 0 50 8,200 35.0 0.70 8.0   From Nakajima et al. (2017) From Nakajima et al. (2016a) 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 253 was mechanically polished to a mirror ﬁnish and then chemically etched with a Secco solution (Secco dAragona 1972). The EPD in the cross section of each ingot was determined by counting the number of etch pits in a 1.0  1.0 cm2 area by optical microscopy. To determine the effect of the convex bottom on the distribution of the dislocations in an ingot, the distribution of the EPD was measured on cross sections 0.2 and 2.8 cm below the top surface of an ingot as shown in Fig. 15 (Nakajima et al. 2015). The red and yellow squares show illustrated positions where each EPD was measured, but the duplicated squares do not indicate the same position. In Fig. 15, the positions (c) and (f) are near the center of the cross section, (b) and (e) are 4.5 cm from the center, and (a) and (d) are 6.0 cm from the center. The ingot had a size of 16.5  16.5 cm2 and a height of 3.2 cm. On the top cross section 0.2 cm below the top surface, the dislocation density was on the order of 103 cm2 over most of the cross sectional area but much higher at the periphery of the cross section. Even on the top cross section, many dislocations moved from the center to the periphery of the ingot in the initial stage of growth. On the bottom cross section 2.8 cm below the top surface, the dislocation density slightly decreased on the order of 103 cm2 over most of the cross sectional area but much higher at the periphery. This means that the dislocations in the ingot moved to the periphery from the center of the ingots during growth owing to the convex growing interface. Figure 16 shows the EPD as a function of the distance from the top surface of the ingots (Nakajima a b c a b 1.5  104/cm2 8.7 x 102/cm2 7.2 x 102/cm2 Etch pit distribution of dislocations c Size: 16.5 16.5 cm2 Thickness:3.2 cm 1.5 cm d e f d 1.0 cm 1.27  104/cm2 4.8  103/cm2 e 3.6  103/cm2 f Bottom Top Fig. 15 (a) Distribution of the EPD of dislocations measured at the periphery of the cross section 2.8 cm below the top surface of an ingot. (b) Distribution of the EPD measured inside the cross section 2.8 cm below the top surface of the ingot. (c) Distribution of the EPD measured at the center of the cross section 2.8 cm below the top surface of the ingot. (d) Distribution of the EPD measured at the periphery of the cross section 0.2 cm below the top surface of the ingot. (e) Distribution of the EPD measured inside the cross section 0.2 cm below the top surface of the ingot. (f) Distribution of the EPD measured at the center of the cross section 0.2 cm below the top surface of the ingot (From Nakajima et al. (2014a)) 254 K. Nakajima et al. 2016b). The maximum and minimum EPDs were evaluated in a cross section of each ingot. The maximum and minimum EPDs usually appeared near the periphery and center of ingots, respectively. The EPD near the top surface of the ingots was very high, especially just below the seed crystal. However, the EPD rapidly decreased as the distance from the top surface of ingots increased because disloca- tions moved to the periphery from the center of the ingots during growth owing to the convex growing interface (Nakajima et al. 2015, 2016b). Finally, the minimum EPD decreased to about 300/cm2. So, the dislocation density in the ingots can be reduced to the order between 102 and 104 cm2 without necking technique (Nakajima et al. 2016b). The EPD was much lower than that of ingots grown by the cast method. To evaluate the oxygen concentration in the ingots, Fourier transform infrared spectrometry (FTIR) analysis was used for longitudinal and horizontal cross sections of the ingots. Oxygen that dissolves in the Si melt from the silica crucible continuously evaporates from the surface of the Si melt. Oxygen in a Si melt has an equilibrium segregation coefﬁcient of k0 ﬃ1. The oxygen concentration is expected to be lowest near the melt surface and increase toward the bottom of the melt. Figure 17a shows a schematic illustration of the distribution of the oxygen concentration in an ingot grown by the NOC method (Nakajima et al. 2015). The thickness of the Si melt was 5 cm. The ingot was pulled upward at a rate of 0.2 mm/min while cooling the melt by 39.9 K. The diagonal length of the top surface of the ingot was 28.6 cm and the ratio of the diagonal length to the crucible diameter was 0.95. The thickness of the ingot was 9.5 cm. Figure 17bd shows the distributions of the oxygen concentration in the ingot as a function of the distance from the ingot center immediately below the seed crystal along the surface of the ingot, in the vertical direction to the bottom of the ingot and in the slanting direction to the bottom of the ingot, respectively. The oxygen concentration slightly increased along the surface of the ingot and markedly increased in the vertical and slanting directions to the bottom of the ingot. On the basis of these results, Fig. 17a Distance from the top surface (cm) Etch-pit density (cm-2) Maximum EPD Minimum EPD 0 2 104 4 104 6 104 8 104 1 105 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Fig. 16 EPD as a function of the distance from the top surface of the ingots. The maximum and minimum EPDs were evaluated in a cross section of each ingot. The EPD rapidly decreased as the distance from the top surface of ingots increased. The dislocation density in the center of the ingots was always on the order of 102104 cm2 (From Nakajima et al. (2016b)) 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 255 was drawn, which schematically shows the concentric distribution of the oxygen concentration on the seed axis. This distribution of the oxygen concentration may be due to the convex growing interface. Figure 18 shows the oxygen concentration of ingots grown using the present furnace as a function of the diameter ratio (Nakajima et al. 2016a). The oxygen concentration of the ingots was always lower than 1  1018 cm3 and did not strongly depend on the diameter ratio. The oxygen concentration of the ingots grown using 40- and 50-cm-diameter crucibles has a tendency to be lower than that of the ingots grown using 33-cm-diameter crucibles because the ratio between the reacted crucible innersurface contacted with the Si melt and the amount of the Si melt becomes lower with the diameter of the crucible. This suggests that the convection in the Si melt was very small in our furnace. For a diameter ratio of more than 0.7, the lowest oxygen concentration of 3.6  1017 cm3 was obtained by gas ﬂow control. This means that the convection in the Si melt or the reaction between the crucible and the Si melt may be small in the present furnace. The convection is markedly suppressed by the low co-rotating speed of the seed and crucible (1 or 0.5 rpm). Crucible 0 5 10 15 20 0 1 2 3 4 5 0 5 10 15 20 0 5 10 15 Distance from the ingot center (cm) Distance from the ingot surface (cm) O concentration (1017/cm3) O concentration (1017/cm3) b c O high Si melt Ingot O low O evaporate O evaporate a 0 5 10 15 20 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 O concentration (1017/cm3) Distance from the ingot center (cm) d Fig. 17 (a) Schematic illustration of distribution of the oxygen concentration in an ingot. (b) Oxygen concentration along the surface of the ingot. (c) Oxygen concentration in the vertical direction from the surface to the bottom of the ingot. (d) Oxygen concentration in the slanting direction from the surface to the bottom of the ingot. The oxygen concentration near the seed was low and increased along the surface of the ingot and in the vertical and slanting directions (From Nakajima et al. (2014a)) 256 K. Nakajima The recombination lifetime was measured at Massachusetts Institute of Technol- ogy (MIT) by the transient photoconductance decay (QSSPC: Sinton WCT-120) (Sinton et al. 1996). Using the Sinton method, the effective lifetime of ingots was measured with Al2O3 passivation deposited with thermal atomic layer deposition (Kivambe et al. 2014) before and after phosphorus diffusion gettering (PDG). Gettering was performed by phosphorus in-diffusion in a POCl3 tube furnace using two processes. The ﬁrst high-throughput process includes loading the sample at 700 C followed by a 25 min plateau at 845 C and immediate unloading at 845 C. The second process includes a controlled cooling step after the 845 C plateau and a 2 h anneal at 650 C before unloading (Nakajima et al. 2015). The highest minority carrier lifetime was 3.2 ms which was the ﬁrst result for the crystal grown inside a crucible (Nakajima et al. 2015; Castellanos et al. 2016). To reduce impurities and oxide particles inside the NOC furnace, the furnace cleaning was performed to mainly reduce Fe contamination by annealing graphite contents inside the furnace chamber in a high vacuum at higher than 1500 C for a long time. Table 2 shows the minority carrier lifetime of wafers selected from the n-type ingots grown using the present furnace (Nakajima et al. 2017). The furnace cleaning was performed between the NOC-2 and NOC-3 ingots. The minority carrier lifetime of the top parts of the ingots is higher than that of the bottom parts because some oxygen precipitates may remain in the bottom parts (Jensen et al. 2016). The minority carrier lifetime of the ingots grown after furnace cleaning drastically was largely improved even in their bottom parts because Fe contamination was reduced. The millisecond lifetime was obtained after gettering owing to high purity without Si3N4 coating. Diameter ratio Oxygen concentration ( 1017 atom/cm3) CZ crystal MCZ crystal Crucibles 33 cm Crucibles 40 cm Crucibles 50 cm CZ and MCZ crystals 0 5 10 15 20 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 Measured by FTIR Fig. 18 Oxygen concentration in ingots grown using 33-, 40- and 50 cm-diameter crucibles furnace as a function of the diameter ratio. It was measured by FTIR. The oxygen concentration of the ingots grown using the new and large furnace did not strongly depend on the diameter ratio. The oxygen concentration of the ingots has a tendency to become lower as the crucible diameter becomes larger (From Nakajima et al. (2016a)) 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 257 The inductively coupled plasma source-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) was used to determine trace and ultra-trace metal elements in Si ingots. Regardless of the furnace cleaning, the Fe concentration in the ingots was always lower than 5.0  1012 cm3 which is the detection limit of the ICP-MS. The Fourier transformed infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy was used to determine carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) concentrations in Si ingots. The C and N concentrations in the ingots are listed in Table 1. Both concentrations were largely reduced after furnace cleaning. Distribution of Conversion Efficiency of n- and p-Type Solar Cells Prepared by the NOC Method After Furnace Cleaning The minority carrier lifetime of an n-type wafer is generally higher than that of a p-type wafer (Nelson 2003). n-type solar cells were prepared in National Solar Energy Institute (INES) using wafers (15.6  15.6 cm2) cut from n-type ingots (see Chap. 9, Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method). Several n-type ingots were prepared before and after furnace cleaning. The solar cell performance of wafers cut from these ingots was determined to evaluate the quality of the ingots. The wafer size was 15.6 square cm. Using the same solar cell structure and process to obtain the conversion efﬁciency of 20.0% for n-type CZ wafers, the highest conversion efﬁciency of 19.4% and the average conversion efﬁciency of 19.0% were obtained for NOC wafers before furnace cleaning. The scattering width was only 1.0%. For wafers cut from the NOC-3 ingot grown after furnace cleaning, the highest conversion efﬁciency of 19.8% and the average conversion efﬁciency of 19.3% were obtained using the same solar cell Table 2 Minority carrier lifetime of wafers selected from the n-type ingots at 1015 cm3 injection level Wafer number NOC-1 NOC-2 NOC-3 NOC-4 25 725 742 1344 1580.25 26 1086 1165 1219 101 583 379 562 102 486 508 862 Lifetimes measured in MIT (Prof. T. Bounassisi) Furnace cleaning was performed between No. 2 and 3 ingots (Fe contaminaon was reduced) Top Bottom From Nakajima et al. (2017) 258 K. Nakajima structure and process to obtain the conversion efﬁciency of 20.0% for n-type CZ wafers as shown in Fig. 19 (see Chap. 6, Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si). The scattering width of the conversion efﬁciency was only 1.2%. The top of the ingot had the higher conversion efﬁciency comparing with the bottom because some oxygen precipitates may remain in the bottom part (Jensen et al. 2016). The highest conversion efﬁciency was almost the same as the conver- sion efﬁciency of the CZ solar cells. The difference between the conversion efﬁ- ciencies of the NOC and CZ solar cells may be mainly based upon the dislocation density in these ingots. In the NOC ingots, the dislocation density was still on the order between 102 and 104 cm2. On the other hand, the CZ ingots had nondislocations. As the oxygen concentration in ingots grown by the NOC method was always lower than that of CZ ingots (Nakajima et al. 2016a), p-type solar cells are effective for this method because of few B-O complex and oxide precipitates in the ingots (Coletti et al. 2014; Macdonald and Cuevas 2001; Herguth et al. 2006). Figure 20 shows the solar cell structure based on the Al Bach Surface Field (Al-BSF) together with the distribution of conversion efﬁciency of p-type solar cells prepared by the NOC method before furnace cleaning (Nakajima et al. 2016b). The solar cells were prepared in the Fukushima Renewable Energy Institute (FREA). The FREA standard processes were used for preparing solar cells using p-type NOC wafers (Castellanos et al. 2016). Using the same solar cell structure and process to obtain the conversion efﬁciency of 19.0% for p-type CZ wafers, all solar cells had higher conversion efﬁciency than 18.2%. The scattering width was only 0.6%. Figure 21 shows a p-type single ingot (NOC-6) grown after furnace cleaning (Nakajima et al. 2017). Solar cell performance of wafers grown after furnace cleaning (NOC-3) Wafer size: 15.6 x 15.6 cm Bottom Top Conversion efficiency (%) n-type solar cells Wafer number Average CZ average 17.5 NOC-008 NOC-012 NOC-015 NOC-019 NOC-020 NOC-023 NOC-024 NOC-032 NOC-035 NOC-036 NOC-039 NOC-044 NOC-052 NOC-055 NOC-056 NOC-059 NOC-079 NOC-084 NOC-086 NOC-105 NOC-112 NOC-115 NOC-116 18.0 18.5 19.0 19.5 20.0 20.5 =18.6  19.8 % Scattering width:1.2 % Fig. 19 Solar cell performance of wafers cut from the n-type ingot (NOC-3) after furnace cleaning. Using the same solar cell structure and process to obtain the conversion efﬁciency of 20.0% for n-type CZ wafers, the highest conversion efﬁciency of 19.8% and the average conversion efﬁciency of 19.3% were obtained for the NOC wafers. The scattering width of the conversion efﬁciency was 1.2%. The highest conversion efﬁciency was almost the same as that of the CZ solar cells 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 259 The ingot had a convex growth interface in the growth direction. It was intentionally made to reduce dislocations using the low pulling and cooling rates at the end of the growth. Solar cells were prepared using wafers (15.6  15.6 cm2) cut from the ingot (NOC-6). The cell thickness was 175 μm. Figure 22 shows the solar cell perfor- mance of the wafers after furnace cleaning (Nakajima et al. 2017). Using the same solar cell structure and process to obtain the conversion efﬁciency of 19.1% for p-type CZ wafers, the highest conversion efﬁciency of 19.14% and the average conversion efﬁciency of 19.0% were obtained for the NOC wafers. The conversion p-Type Si Ag Finger Ag Busbar Textured surface SiN Emitter Al contact p+ layer Wafer size: 15.6 x 15.6 cm2 =18.2  18.8% Scattering width: 0.6% p-type wafer Al-BSF (AIST) Ref: =19.0% for p-type CZ wafers p-type solar cells Top Bottom Conversion efficiency (%) Wafer number Average CZ average Before furnace cleaning 17.5 18.0 18.5 19.0 19.5 20.0 20.5 NOC-004 NOC-011 NOC-016 NOC-028 NOC-040 NOC-047 NOC-052 NOC-059 Fig. 20 Solar cell structure (Al-BSF) together with the distribution of conversion efﬁciency of p-type solar cells prepared by the NOC method before furnace cleaning p-Type single ingot (NOC-6) with a convex growth interface grown after furnace cleaning. Maximum diameter: 35.0 cm Diameter ratio: 0.7 Height: 8.0 cm Fig. 21 p-Type single ingot grown after furnace cleaning. It had a convex growth interface in the growth direction (From Nakajima et al. (2017)) 260 K. Nakajima efﬁciency was the same as that for the CZ solar cells. The present conversion efﬁciency was much higher than that of the NOC wafers grown before furnace cleaning (Nakajima et al. 2016b). The scattering width of the conversion efﬁciency was only 0.34%, which was quite narrow because of its high uniformity. Using the cast furnace, solar cells with the conversion efﬁciency and yield as high as those of the CZ solar cells can be obtained by the NOC method for the ﬁrst time. Figure 23 shows the frequency of conversion efﬁciency of p-type solar cells prepared by the high performance (HP) cast method (Lan 2014; Lan et al. 2015) and the present method (Nakajima et al. 2017) (see Chap. 7, Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method). Multicrystals were used to prepare the solar cells for the HP method and single crystals were used to prepare the solar cells for the NOC method. The yield of the regular solar cells with the conversion efﬁciency higher than 18.8% was 100% for the present method when cutting loss was not considered. It was much larger than that for the HP cast method. The conversion efﬁciency and yield were almost the same as those of CZ solar cells. The quality of the NOC ingots is also almost the same as that of the CZ ingots except for the dislocation density. Applications of the NOC Method On the view point of the comparison between Si wafers grown by the cast and CZ methods in the present market for solar cells, the price of Si multicrystalline wafers is slightly lower than that of single wafers. The Si multicrystalline wafers have a larger Wafer size: 15.6 x 15.6 cm =18.8  19.14 % Scattering width:0.34 % Wafer number Conversion efficiency (%) p-type solar cells (NOC-6) Top Bottom Average CZ average 17.5 18.0 18.5 19.0 19.5 20.0 20.5 NOC-006 NOC-010 NOC-016 NOC-018 NOC-022 NOC-025 NOC-031 NOC-034 NOC-043 NOC-046 NOC-052 NOC-055 NOC-058 NOC-062 NOC-069 NOC-072 NOC-078 NOC-081 NOC-087 NOC-090 Fig. 22 Solar cell performance of wafers cut from the p-type ingot (NOC-6). The highest conversion efﬁciency was 19.14% and the average conversion efﬁciency was 19.0%. Its scattering width was only 0.34%, which was quite narrow because of its high uniformity. The conversion efﬁciency and yield were almost the same as those of CZ solar cells (From Nakajima et al. (2017)) 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 261 share than the single wafers because of their high productivity. But they lose 1% efﬁciency because of their inefﬁcient texture structure. The next target of the cast method should be to develop uniform large Si single ingots using the cast furnace. The next target of the CZ method may be the growth of large ingots from which four wafers can be obtained to improve their low productivity. The present method has a potential to realize these two targets. As an advanced cast method, the NOC method is effective to grow uniform large Si single ingots with sufﬁcient quality to obtain p-type solar cells with high conversion efﬁciency and high yield using a cast furnace as shown in Figs. 22 and 23. Figure 24 shows each yield of materials for the HP cast and present methods. In this case, an ingot with a 68 cm diameter will be grown for the NOC method. Ten wafers can be obtained from a cross section of the NOC ingot. So, the ﬁnal yield of the regular solar cells with the conversion efﬁciency higher than 18.8% will be between 63% and 81% for the present method when that for the HP cast method will be less than 10%. In this estimation, the maximum cutting loss of the NOC ingot was assumed to be 30%, but it will be less than 10% when the cutting-loss crystals will be used again for Si source materials. In this case, the maximum yield will be more than 80% for the NOC method. Figure 25 shows a schematic illustration of a cast ingot grown by the present method (Nakajima et al. 2017). The horizontal growth rate is higher than 1 mm/mi (Nakajima et al. 2014c). So, for practical use, such a ﬂat plate single ingot with large diameter and large volume will be grown using the cast furnace to keep the high productivity. The high buoyancy from the Si melt helps the large ingot to remain in the Si melt. In this growth, the present method has such merits. The dislocation density is on the order between 102 and 104 cm2 in the center of ingots. There was no meaningful 0 10 20 30 40 50 17 18 19 17.2 17.4 17.6 17.8 18.2 18.4 18.6 18.8 19.2 NOC method (NOC solar cells from AIST, 2016) HP cast method (A4+ HP cast solar cells from C. W. Lan, 2014) Al-BSF (p-type solar cells) Conversion efficiency (%) Frequency (%) CZ average Fig. 23 Frequency of conversion efﬁciency of p-type solar cells prepared by the HP cast method (Lan 2014; Lan et al. 2015) and the NOC method. Multicrystals were used to prepare the solar cells for the HP method and single crystals were used to prepare the solar cells for the NOC method. For the present method, the distribution was quite sharp and the yield was quite large comparing with that for the HP cast method (From Nakajima et al. (2017)) 262 K. Nakajima difference for the oxygen concentration of the n- and p-type ingots and it was always lower than 1  1018 cm3 after the furnace cleaning. The millisecond lifetime is obtained after gettering. The yield of the regular solar cells with high conversion efﬁciency is much larger. Figure 26 shows a schematic illustration of Fig. 24 Each yield of materials for the HP cast and present methods when an ingot with a 68 cm diameter will be grown Flat-plate single ingot with large diameter and large volume using the cast furnace Without Si3N4coating Pulling Si melt Si single ingot 1. Low dislocation density order:102 -104 cm-2) without necking technique 2. ms minority carrier lifetime after gettering owing to high purity without Si3N4coating 3. High yield for high efficiency solar cells 100% for  18.8% p-type solar cells 1 m High buoyancy Fig. 25 Schematic illustration of a cast ingot grown by the NOC method together with its merits. For practical use, such a ﬂat plate single ingot with large diameter and large volume can be grown using the cast furnace (From Nakajima et al. (2017)) 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 263 the growth methods for p-type solar cells in the mega solar market. When the large single ingots shown in Fig. 25 will be grown using the cast furnace, the present method will be an advanced cast method to realize uniform large Si single ingots with sufﬁcient quality to obtain solar cells with high conversion efﬁciency and high yield. To grow such large ingots, it is very important to prevent the local supercooling in the Si melt during growth (Nakajima et al. 2016a). Conclusion The NOC method was proposed to obtain uniform large Si single ingots with sufﬁcient quality to obtain solar cells with the conversion efﬁciency and yield higher than those of HP cast solar cells. Existence of the low-temperature region was conﬁrmed by rapidly pulling the ingot upward from the Si melt. Using this method, Si single ingots were grown inside Si melts without contact with the crucible wall. The 110 growth rate was as high as 1.5 mm/min using the cooling rate of 0.4 K/min. It was higher than that of the cast method. Si single ingots with a perfect square- shape were prepared by the NOC method. The diameter (23 cmφ) of an ingot was kept constant during growth using a high cooling rate of 0.4 mm/min. A maximum diameter ratio of 0.9 and a maximum diameter of 45.0 cm were obtained using a 50 cm diameter crucible. Dislocations moved to the periphery from the center of the ingot during growth because of the convex growing interface. Owing to this effect, the dislocation density in the center of the ingots was generally on the order between 102 and 104 cm2 without necking technique. The lowest oxygen concentration of 3.6  1017 cm3 was obtained by this method. Minority carrier lifetime at the Growth methods for p-type solar cells (CZfurnace) (Cast furnace) Productivity Low High High Low CZ method NOC method Cast method Single crystals Using cast furnace Conversion efficiency Single crystals Multicrystals Si single ingot Flat - plate ingot 1 m Fig. 26 Schematic illustration of the growth methods for p-type solar cells in the mega solar market. When single ingots with large volume will be grown using the cast furnace to keep its high productivity, the present method will be an advanced cast method in this market 264 K. Nakajima injection level of 1  1015/cm3 was 768 μs before extended P gettering and 3.2 ms after extended P gettering. The highest conversion efﬁciency of n-type wafers was 19.8%, using the same solar cell structure and process to obtain the conversion efﬁciency of 20.0% for n-type CZ wafers. The highest conversion efﬁciency of p-type wafers was 19.14% and the average conversion efﬁciency was 19.0%, using the same solar cell structure and process to obtain the conversion efﬁciency of 19.1% for p-type CZ wafers. The yield of the p-type regular solar cells with the conversion efﬁciency higher than 18.8% was much larger for the present method than that for the HP cast method. The present method is promising as an advanced cast method for obtaining uniform large Si single ingots with sufﬁcient quality to obtain high- efﬁciency solar cells with a high yield. Cross-References Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method References D.F. Bliss, Evolution and application of the Kyropoulos crystal growth method, in: 50 Years Progress in Crystal Growth: A Reprint Collection, ed. by R.S. Feigelson (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2004), pp. 2933 W.N. Borle, S. Tata, S.K. Varma, J. Cryst. Growth 8, 223 (1971) S. Castellanos, M. Kivambe, M.A. Jensen, D.M. Powell, K. Nakajima, K. Morishita, R. Murai, T. Buonassisi, Science Direct, Energy Procedia 92, 779 (2016) G. Coletti, P. Manshanden, S. Bernardini, P.C.P. Bronsveld, A. Gutjahr, Z. Hu, G. Li, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 130, 647 (2014) J. Czochralski, Z. Phys. Chem. 92, 219 (1917) W. Dash, C. J. Appl. Phys. 30, 459 (1959) S.E. Demina, E.N. Bystrova, M.A. Lukanina, V.M. Mamedov, V.S. Yuferev, E.V. Eskov, M.V. Nikolenko, V.S. Postolov, V.V. Kalaev, Opt. Mater. 30, 62 (2007) K. Fujiwara, K. Maeda, N. Usami, G. Sazaki, Y. Nose, A. Nomura, T. Shishido, K. Nakajima, Acta Mater. 56, 2663 (2008) A. Herguth, G. Schubert, M. Kaes, G. Hahn, in 21st EUPVSEC, p. 530, 2006 M.A. Jensen, V. LaSalvia, A.E. Morishige, K. Nakajima, Y. Veschetti, F. Jay, A. Jouini, A. Youssef, P. Stradins, T. Buonassisi, in Silicon PV, 2016 M. Kivambe, D.M. Powell, S. Castellanos, M.A. Jensen, A.E. Morishige, K. Nakajima, K. Morishita, R. Murai, T. Buonassisi, J. Cryst. Growth 407, 31 (2014) E. Kuroda, S. Matsubara, T. Saitoh, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 19, L361 (1980a) E. Kuroda, S. Matsubara, T. Saitoh, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 19, L361 (1980b) C.W. Lan, in 6th World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion, 2014 C.W. Lan, C. Hsu, K. Nakajima, Handbook of Crystal Growth, Bulk Crystal Growth: Basic Techniques Vol. II, Part a (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2015), pp. 373411 D. Macdonald, A. Cuevas, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 65, 509 (2001) W. Miller, C. Frank-Rotsch, M. Czupalla, P. Rudolph, Cryst. Res. Technol. 47, 285 (2012) A. Muiznieks, A. Rudevics, K. Lacis, H. Riemann, A. Lüdge, F.W. Schulze, B. Nacke, in Pro- ceedings of the International Scientiﬁc Colloquium, Modelling for Material, 2006, p. 89 10 Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method 265 K. Nakajima, R. Murai, K. Morishita, K. Kutsukake, N. Usami, J. Cryst. Growth 344, 6 (2012a) K. Nakajima, K. Morishita, R. Murai, K. Kutsukake, J. Cryst. Growth 355, 38 (2012b) K. Nakajima, R. Murai, K. Morishita, K. Kutsukake, J. Cryst. Growth 372, 121 (2013) K. Nakajima, R. Murai, K. Morishita, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 53, 025501025501 (2014a) K. Nakajima, K. Morishita, R. Murai, N. Usami, J. Cryst. Growth 389, 112 (2014b) K. Nakajima, K. Morishita, R. Murai, J. Cryst. Growth 405, 44 (2014c) K. Nakajima, R. Murai, S. Ono, K. Morishita, M. Kivambe, D.M. Powell, T. Buonassisi, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 54, 015504015501 (2015) K. Nakajima, S. Ono, R. Murai, Y. Kaneko, J. Electron. Mater. 45, 2837 (2016a) K. Nakajima, S. Ono, Y. Kaneko, R. Murai, K. Shirasawa, T. Fukuda, H. Takato, in Proceedings of the 43th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 2016b, pp. 6872 K. Nakajima, S. Ono, Y. Kaneko, R. Mura, K. Shirasawa, T. Fukuda, H. Takato, S. Castellanos, M.A. Jensen, A. Youssef, T. Buonassisi, F. Jay, Y. Veschetti, A. Jouini, J. Cryst. Growth 468, 705 (2017) J. Nelson, Physics of Solar Cells, Chapter 7 (Imperial College Press, London, 2003) G. Ratnieks, A. Muiznieks, A. Mühlbauer, J. Cryst. Growth 255, 227 (2003) P.S. Ravishankar, Sol. Energy Mater. 12, 361 (1985) P.J. Rudolph, Jpn. Assoc. Cryst. Growth 39, 8 (2012) P. Rudolph, M. Czupalla, B. Lux, F. Kirscht, C. Frank-Rotsch, W. Miller, M. Albrecht, J. Cryst. Growth 318, 249 (2011) F. Secco dAragona, J. Electrochem. Soc. 119, 948 (1972) R.A. Sinton, A. Cuevas, M. Stuckings, in Proceedings of the 25th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 1996, p. 457 W. Zulehner, J. Cryst. Growth 65, 189 (1983) 266 K. Nakajima Part III Silicon Wafer Preparing Wafer Processing 11 Hans Joachim Möller Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 270 Cutting and Grinding of Ingots ................................................................. 271 Multi-crystalline Silicon ..................................................................... 272 Monocrystalline Silicon ..................................................................... 273 Multi-wire Sawing ............................................................................... 274 Slurry Sawing ................................................................................ 274 Sawing with Structured Wires ............................................................... 282 Fixed Abrasive Sawing ...................................................................... 283 Basic Sawing Mechanisms ...................................................................... 287 Slurry-Based Sawing ........................................................................ 287 Fixed Abrasive Sawing ...................................................................... 295 Recycling of Kerf Loss and Slurry .............................................................. 297 PEG/SiC Slurries ............................................................................. 298 Water-Based Slurries and Coolants .......................................................... 302 Directional Solidiﬁcation .................................................................... 302 Alternative Wafering Technologies ............................................................. 303 Cleavage Technologies ...................................................................... 304 Layer Transfer Technologies ................................................................ 305 Conclusion ....................................................................................... 306 Cross-References ................................................................................ 307 References ....................................................................................... 307 Abstract The fabrication of silicon wafers for solar cells and modules is an expensive step in the processing chain. The technological development is therefore primarily driven by the need to reduce cost. The dominant wafering method is multi-wire sawing with a straight steel wire and an abrasive slurry consisting of polyethylene H. J. Möller (*) Fraunhofer Technology Center for Semiconductor Materials, Freiberg, Germany e-mail: hans.joachim.moeller@thm.fraunhofer.de  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_16 269 glycols (PEG) and SiC powders (loose abrasive sawing). Substantial cost reduc- tions are possible with structured steel wires or wires coated with diamond particles (ﬁxed abrasive sawing) and the replacement of PEG by water-based ﬂuids. Apart from the cost, the wafer qualities such as thickness variations, roughness, subsurface saw damage, and fracture stability play an important role and have to be improved as well. These factors depend on many sawing param- eters, which makes optimization a difﬁcult task. The chapter describes the requirements on the sawing machines, the wires, the slurries, the wafer quality, and the experimental methods, which have been developed to characterize wafers and the consumables. The fundamental micromechanical sawing processes and models are also described. Their knowledge is helpful to improve the sawing process in a controlled way. Alternative wafering methods and their perspectives are presented brieﬂy. Keywords Silicon wafer  Wafering  Multi-wire sawing  Loose abrasive sawing  Fixed abrasive sawing  Slurry  Diamond wire  Structured wire  Cleavage technology  Silicon recycling  Slurry recycling Introduction More than 90% of todays solar cells are fabricated from silicon wafers. Because of the low absorption of silicon, a wafer thickness of about 200300 μm is required to absorb and convert the main part of the light into electrical power. For a long time, this was also the standard thickness of the wafers. New developments in the solar cell technology allowed a reduction of the wafer thickness to about 180 μm today, and this trend may continue down to about 80 μm or less. The main driving force for this development is the high cost of the silicon material, which has a cost share of about 16% of the ﬁnal module cost (ITRPV 2016). The wafer-processing techniques are based on cutting large multi- or monocrys- talline silicon crystals by saws (parts Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film and Crystalline Silicon Growth). Several processing steps with different types of machines are required to cut the crystals into the ﬁnal wafer size. Multi-wire sawing is the last step and the main slicing technique for wafers. The advantages are a high yield in production and a good quality for the wafers. This fabrication step needs expensive consumables and has a share of about 12% of the ﬁnal module cost. Sawing is also accompanied by a substantial loss of high-quality silicon due to the cutting kerf. Reducing the wafer thickness and kerf loss and recycling valuable silicon material are thus important developments, which are currently pursued. Wafers with thicknesses below 100 μm can already be sawn, and the lower limit of the multi-wire technology has certainly not been reached. A number of kerﬂess wafering technologies have also been developed in the past by growing the silicon crystals either directly as wafers or in form of ribbons. Some 270 H. J. Möller of these techniques had reached an industrial production level but have been abandoned in the meantime because they were not competitive. Therefore these wafer fabrication methods shall not be presented here. Other kerﬂess techniques, which are based on cleavage or layer transfer technol- ogies, are still under development. These methods require monocrystalline material and are often directly integrated into the solar cell process. Since the wafers are usually much thinner, below 50 μm, these techniques may offer an alternative if a future solar cell technology requires wafers with such thicknesses. The main focus of this chapter is therefore on the standard multi-wire sawing process. This wafering technique depends on many variable parameters, which makes it difﬁcult to optimize the process in view of throughput, material loss, reduction of supply materials, and wafer surface quality. Most of the progress has been made by experience and improved machine technology, but a basic knowledge about the microscopic details of the sawing process is also necessary in order to slice crystals in a controlled way. This is particularly necessary, when the wafer thickness will be reduced further in the future. The sawing processes damage the ingot and wafer surfaces mechanically. The resulting surface damage has an inﬂuence on the mechanical stability of the wafers, the following etching and texturization steps and the contamination with metallic and other impurities. The damaged layers have to be removed for further processing the wafers. This is a material loss, which becomes increasingly detrimental, when the wafer thicknesses are further reduced. Therefore many specialized characterization techniques have been developed to investigate the surface quality of the wafers and the factors which determine the surface damage (Chap. 13, Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials). Cutting and Grinding of Ingots Both mono- and multi-crystalline silicon are used for solar cells. Due to the different growth techniques, the initial crystals have different shapes. Multi-crystalline crys- tals are grown in square-shaped crucibles by directional solidiﬁcation (Fig. 1a). The side lengths increased over the years and have reached sizes up to about 1  1 m2. The height of the ingots remained at about 2530 cm. Monocrystalline silicon is grown by the Cz technique and yields round crystals (Fig. 2a). For PV applications crystals with diameters of about 20 cm and a length of about 2 m are grown. Since wafers for solar cells have a standard size, the crystals have to be cut into the ﬁnal shapes. In a ﬁrst step, the crystals are cut into ingots with an approximate cross section of the ﬁnal wafer size. Then the side faces and edges of the ingots are ground and polished until the ﬁnal dimension of the cross section is reached. In a third step, these ingots are sliced into the wafers then. Different types of machines, which have been adapted to the different shapes and sizes of the initial crystals, are required for these steps. 11 Wafer Processing 271 Multi-crystalline Silicon Due to the permanent contact to the crucible walls during growth, a multi-crystalline crystal is contaminated at the side faces. These parts of the crystal have a much lower lifetime of charge carriers and cannot be used for solar cells (part Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film). The extent of the contamination is measured by lifetime or diffusion lengths methods. A diffusion length topogram at a cross section of a crystal in Fig. 3 shows that a few centimeters of material on each side is deteriorated. These parts of the crystal have to be removed. After cleaning by etching, these parts can be used again as feedstock material. The remaining crystal is sliced into ingots with the diameter of the ﬁnal wafers (Fig. 1b). The cutting is achieved in one step by diamond-coated multi-wires or multiband saws. Depending on the initial crystal size, one obtains currently mainly 6  6 ingots (G6 crystals), but larger crystals up to G8 can still be cut by this technique. The requirements on the precision of the sawing machines and the cutting parameters are much less compared to the multi-wire saws for the following wafering process. In the next step, the ingots are screened with an infrared transmission camera system to detect (mostly SiC or Si3N4) precipitates. Such parts of the ingots are removed before further processing. When the ingots are sliced into wafers, the side faces of the ingots become the edges of the wafers. Since the ﬁnal wafers are very thin, they are also very fragile. Fracture of the wafers is thus an important issue considering the productivity of the wafering process (Chap. 13, Charac- terization of Wafers and Supply Materials). Investigations of the fracture behav- ior have shown that the wafer edges mostly initiate the fracture because they Fig. 2 Cz silicon crystal (a) and ingot after slicing (b) Fig. 1 Multi-crystalline silicon crystal (a) and ingots after slicing (b) 272 H. J. Möller contain larger micro cracks from the previous rough slicing step. Micro-crack lengths can be in the range of 3050 μm. It is therefore necessary to remove these cracks before the wafering step. Each wafer supplier uses its own method, but generally one applies grinding or polishing techniques to smooth the side faces. Eventually also etching procedures are used. These steps determine the ﬁnal diameter of the wafers. Monocrystalline Silicon The round shape of the monocrystals requires in the ﬁrst step the squaring of the crystals (part Crystalline Silicon Growth). Since larger parts of the crystal have to be removed, one optimizes the process by cutting a quasi-square shape with rounded edges (Fig. 2b). The fracture stability of the monocrystalline wafers depends on the orientation of the surface and of the side faces. One selects orienta- tions with regard to the wire motion direction, which yield the best stability during sawing. The side faces of the ingots are also treated by grinding and polishing to obtain smooth surfaces with a low micro-crack density. The detection of precipitates in the ingots is not necessary because the material is defect-free due to the growth process. The lengths of the ingots are adjusted to the length of the wire web of the sawing machine to obtain as much wafers as possible in one cut. Fig. 3 Diffusion length topogram of a cross section of an ingot showing the bottom, center, and top region as well as one side of the face. Edge parts with diffusion lengths below about 150 μm cannot be used and are removed. The ingot height here is 25 cm 11 Wafer Processing 273 Multi-wire Sawing Multi-wire saws for cutting silicon wafers are dedicated high-precision machines. Worldwide only few companies have developed saws which can fulﬁll the current requirements of the photovoltaic industry. The principle of a multi-wire saw is shown in Fig. 4. A single wire is supplied by a spool (not shown here), wound several hundred times around the wire guide rollers and picked up on the other side by another spool (also not shown). Manufacturers have developed different machine types with two, three, or four rollers. Depending on the wire guide arrangement, between one and four ingots can be cut at the same time. The wire guide rollers are coated with a polymer layer into which grooves of a certain shape are cut. These grooves guide the wires and keep them at a deﬁned distance. The groove distance, the wire diameter, and the abrasive particle size determine the ﬁnal thickness of the wafers. The wires are made from steel and have a thickness between 80 and 120 μm today. New steel wires are usually covered with a thin brass layer from the wire drawing process, which has no function and is quickly removed during sawing. Slurry Sawing Todays dominant sawing technique (Bidiville et al. 2010; Möller 2008) uses saws, where the cutting is achieved by free-ﬂoating abrasive particles, which are suspended in a carrier ﬂuid (loose abrasive or slurry sawing). During sawing the suspension or slurry is supplied through nozzles on the wire web and carried by the wires into the sawing channel. The ingots or bricks, which have to be cut into wafers, are pushed through the wire web until the cut is ﬁnished. The motion can be either up- or downward into the wire web, depending on the machine type. The sawing velocity (also feed velocity or feed rate) is mainly kept constant except at the beginning and the end of the cut. Fig. 4 Principle of the multi-wire sawing techniques (a) and wire web with short test ingot (b). In production the ingot lengths cover the entire width of the wire web 274 H. J. Möller SiC powder is the most commonly used abrasive today, but diamond or other hard materials can be used as well. The powders are speciﬁed regarding their mean size and the width of the size distribution (Table 1). Typically the grain sizes are between 2 and 15 μm, depending on the thickness of the wires which is used. Most of the commercial slurries are based on polyethylene glycol (PEG)-based ﬂuids. A PEG molecule can have different chain lengths. Commercial products, such as PEG 200, are mixtures of PEG molecules with different lengths. By changing the composition, the viscosity can be varied. Others ﬂuids such as monoethylene glycol (MEG), diethylene glycol (DEG), and dipropylene glycol (DPG) or oils are also used. In fact, oil has been the main ﬂuid in previous years and is still partly used in some Asian countries today. The viscosities are kept in the range 0.050.2 Pas, because it gives good transportation capability for the abrasive powder. Other carrier ﬂuids with a much lower viscosity such as water cannot be used directly as will be discussed later (Chap. 13, Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials). Both PEG ﬂuid and abrasive particles deteriorate after some cuts. Several factors contribute here: the wear of the SiC particles, the enrichment with silicon debris, and the enrichment of the ﬂuid with water and chemical reactions of some of the components. It is however possible to recycle the ﬂuid and the SiC and mix a new slurry. Since the SiC powder has not the same abrasive sawing capability as before, usually some virgin SiC is added. Because the recycling of the slurry and cleaning of the wafers is cheaper for PEG than for oil, this slurry is mainly used in industry today. The main purpose of the slurry is to transport the abrasive particles into the sawing channel. Silicon material is continuously removed there through the interac- tion of the SiC particles with the silicon surface. The abrasive action of the SiC depends on many factors such as wire speed, force between wire and crystal, the solid fraction of SiC in the suspension, the viscosity of the suspension, the size distribution, and the shape of SiC particles. The viscosity of the slurry depends on the temperature and the solid fraction of particles, which changes because of the continuous abrasion of silicon, iron, and brass from the wire. The width of the sawing channel or kerf is mainly determined by the diameter of the wire and the Table 1 Typical size specifications of commercial SiC powders. D50 is the mass median diameter, 3% of the SiC particles are smaller than D97 and larger than D3 Grit D50 [μm] D97 [μm] D3 [μm] F 2000 1.2 0.3 3.5 F 1500 2.0 0.4 5.0 F 1200 3.0 0.5 7.0 F 1000 4.5 0.8 10 F 800 6.5 1.0 14 F 600 9.3 1.0 19 F 500 12.8 1.0 25 F 400 17.3 1.0 32 11 Wafer Processing 275 size distribution of the SiC particles. A kerf loss around 120140 μm per wafer is typical today. In the loose abrasive sawing, the wires move in one direction with a speed between 10 and 20 m/s. Therefore a standard cutting process between 300 and 500 km of wire is required. The wires are used only once, the slurry can be used two to four times and is recycled then. The cutting speeds are around 0.30.5 mm/ min, which yields a total cutting time of about 813 h for a standard ingot size. The ingots, which are sliced into wafers, have currently a size of 156  156 mm2. Modern machines allow to cut several ingots simultaneously and yield between 2000 and 4000 wafers in one run. Currently wafers with a thickness of about 180 μm for multi and 160 μm for mono material are cut. The thickness varies however along the direction of the wire motion and is higher at the wire outlet. This is due to the unidirectional motion of the wire and changes of the sawing action along the wire channel. The change of the wafer thickness should be however less than 25 μm (speciﬁed by the total thickness variation parameter  TTV) for high-quality wafers. The objective of efﬁcient sawing is to slice with a high throughput, a minimum loss of slurry and silicon, and a high quality of the resulting wafers. The control and optimization of the process are very complex, since many parameters can be varied and have an impact on the wafer quality and yield. Important is the control of wire speed, wire tension, cutting speed, and other machine parameters, but also param- eters concerning the composition and properties of the abrasive SiC powders and the carrier ﬂuids play a role. Currently, two improvements of the sawing technology are pursued: the use of structured steel wires and the use of wires, which are coated with diamond particles (ﬁxed abrasive wires). In the ﬁrst case, the wires have small kinks at distances of millimeters, which results in a better transport of slurry into and through the sawing channel. In the second case, the cutting is achieved by the ﬁxed abrasive diamond particles on the wire. The advantage in both cases is that the cutting speed can be increased. The slightly higher kerf loss can be compen- sated by a thinner core wire. Industrial multi-wire saws allow one to record machine parameters during the entire process, such as wire and cutting speed, wire tension, power consumption, slurry ﬂow and temperature, etc. If one wants to learn more about the details of the sawing process, one needs further information. In particular it has been shown that the measurement of the forces on the wires, the resulting wire bow, and the temperature variation along the sawing channel are important. Industrial sawing machines are not equipped with tools to measure these quantities. Force and bow sensors or IR camera systems have therefore been developed and incorporated into dedicated machines to investigate the sawing process more quantitatively. Observations of the particle and slurry transport with high-speed cameras also give valuable insight. Furthermore it is important to analyze the as-cut wafer surfaces, the wire surfaces, and the slurry properties. All these data allow one to develop quantitative models for the sawing process and help to optimize the wide parameter ﬁeld. 276 H. J. Möller Force in Ingot Feed Direction Quantitative force measurements have been carried out on single wires as well as with many wires. In the latter case, one has to consider that the wire properties may change from the ﬁrst to the last wire due to wire wear (Meißner et al. 2014). Typically one measures the forces perpendicular to the wire, in the direction of ingot motion, and parallel to the wire, in the direction of wire motion. The latter gives the friction force of the sawing process. Figure 5 shows the average vertical total force on a single wire in a multi-wire experiment as a function of the ratio of feed velocity over the nth power of the wire velocity. For n = 1125, a straight line is obtained. The sawing rate can be summa- rized by the following equation: vs ¼ vsovnFn (1) where v is the wire velocity and Fn the total normal force on the wire in cutting direction. This equation is known as the Preston equation (for n = 1) and has been found for material removal processes such as lapping and polishing (Buijs and Korpel van Houten 1993). Some investigations indicate however that the velocity exponent for sawing may be slightly higher in this case, being n  1.1  1.3, but such measurements are often not precise enough to yield an exact value. In some measurements one also observed that the material removal starts above a certain threshold value of about 0.010.03 N per wire. This has been explained with a minimum load on the abrasive particle that is required for the material removal mechanism to operate. The prefactor vso, the Preston coefﬁcient, depends on many factors such as wire tension, slurry viscosity, temperature, SiC concentra- tion, etc. It is therefore difﬁcult to make quantitative predictions about the sawing process when these factors change. A more detailed investigation of the under- lying sawing mechanism, as discussed later, will give a better description of this factor. Fig. 5 Average force per wire in cutting direction as a function of the ratio of feed velocity over (wire velocity)n for different mean grit sizes (n = 1.125) 11 Wafer Processing 277 Friction Forces The friction force in wire direction is depicted in Fig. 6. It increases both with the wire and the feed velocity (Rietzschel et al. 2010). An important feature is that there is friction even without sawing (for zero feed velocity). This indicates that the friction force is less determined by the interaction of the SiC particles with the wire and crystal surfaces but mainly by friction processes inside of the slurry. These can be the interactions between particles, the internal friction in the ﬂuid and the interaction forces between particles and ﬂuid. Therefore it is not surprising that the particle size is also important. In general the friction forces increase for ﬁner grit sizes. It has also been observed that there is a slight dependence on the shape of the size distribution. Due to the friction, the temperature increases along the sawing channel. Figure 7 shows the temperature variations along the side face of an ingot. These data have been obtained by an infrared thermography camera during a slurry-based cut. The temperature increases from about 20 C to more than 50 C along the sawing channel. More precise measurements have shown that the temperatures close to the sawing channel are even higher by about 15 C (Johnsen et al. 2009). Since the viscosity is exponentially dependent on the temperature, a substantial Fig. 6 Friction force measurements parallel to a single wire as a function of the wire velocity for different sawing velocities (PEG 200/SiC 23 vol%) Fig. 7 Temperature distribution on the cross section of an ingot during sawing (measured by infrared thermography) 278 H. J. Möller change of the viscosity occurs along the sawing channel. All factors, which affect the friction force and temperature, thus also have an impact on the viscosity. Sawing experience shows that small changes of the slurry temperature can have a signiﬁcant inﬂuence on the sawing result. Therefore a good control and stabili- zation of the slurry temperature within about 1 C is very important in the sawing process. Dependence on Slurry Properties Many experimental results show that the slurry properties play an important role in the sawing process. It is however difﬁcult to understand the various dependences because of the complexity of the interactions. The slurry has to transport the abrasive particles into the sawing channel and to remove the silicon and metal debris (from the steel wire) out of the sawing channel (Retsch et al. 2012; Kaminski et al. 2010). The main slurry property is the viscosity. It depends on the particle load, which is depicted in Fig. 8 in the case of SiC load. The general trend is that with increasing volume fraction the viscosity increases. One can also see that a smaller grit size increases the viscosity as well. In general, the dependence can be approximated by the Krieger-Dougherty relationship η ¼ ηo 1  ϕ=ϕo ð Þq (2) if appropriate parameters are selected for and q. is the viscosity of the carrier ﬂuid (Struble and Sun 1993). The experimental data given here yield a value of q  1. During sawing the solid volume fraction in the ﬂuid changes in the sawing channel because of the removed silicon and the wear of the wire. The debris is ﬁner than the average SiC grain size. Therefore one can expect an increase in the viscosity due to the increased volume and the contribution of ﬁner particles. It has also been reported that the shape of the particles has an effect on the slurry viscosity. Fig. 8 Relative viscosity as a function of the volume fraction of SiC in a PEG 300 carrier ﬂuid for different grit size distributions. The solid lines are Krieger- Dougherty ﬁts with appropriate parameters 11 Wafer Processing 279 Considering all factors the viscosity at the entry and exit of the sawing channel differs and varies along the channel. The dominant effect however is the temperature increase, which decreases the viscosity. The addition of solid material due to debris increases the viscosity but this effect is overcompensated by the temperature induced viscosity decrease. The inﬂuence of the slurry on the sawing performance is a key factor. This can be seen in Fig. 9 which depicts the dependence of the forces on the viscosity. Both the total force on the wire in sawing direction and along the wire (friction force) increase with the viscosity of the slurry. According to the basic Preston equation, this has an impact on the sawing velocity. It has also been observed that parallel to the viscosity, the pH value increases from around six to seven due to chemical reactions within the slurry. This has an impact on the zeta potential of SiC and silicon powder in the slurry, which is a measure for the surface potential and the charge of particles in a suspension. Highly charged particles are more dispersed in a suspension, which is beneﬁcial for the transport along the sawing channel. The particle dispersion also plays a role in slurry recycling processes. Water-Based SiC Slurries The standard sawing process uses PEG as cutting ﬂuids. A replacement of the PEG by water saves cost but has several drawbacks. The viscous properties of water are too low to efﬁciently transport the SiC and Si powder particles along the sawing channel. Furthermore silicon interacts with water and produces hydrogen which increases the risk of explosions, particularly in the supply tanks where the slurry remains for a longer time. Other problems arise from the buildup of waste material in the machine because water evaporates quicker than PEG and the remaining powder material clogs pipes and other parts in the saw. One usually adds a mixture of different chemicals to Fig. 9 Dependence of friction and feed force per wire on the slurry viscosity at the wire inlet. The measured forces are averaged values because of the viscosity changes along the wire channel 280 H. J. Möller reduce these problems but at the expense of higher cost. Water-based slurries therefore could not replace standard PEG/SiC slurry so far but may do so in the future particularly with the use of structured wires. Wire Tension The wire web in modern multi-wire saws is up to 100 cm in width and contains several thousand parallel wire segments depending on the machine type. To build such a wire web, 710 km of wire is necessary. The control of the wire tension is essential in the sawing process, both to prevent wire breakage and to guarantee stable sawing conditions. The sawing machines have therefore sophisticated control mech- anisms to react very quickly when the tension changes. The wire tension is kept constant before and behind the wire web, mostly between 15 and 25 N at the entry. Changes of the wire tensions between the wire guide rollers in the cutting area cannot be controlled. Recent investigations have shown that the wire tension is actually reduced from the ﬁrst to the last wire in the web due to two effects (Meißner et al. 2014). During the ﬁrst 35 cm (100200 loops) in the wire web, the wire is plastically deformed by about 0.2% and loses about 23 N in tension force. It could be shown that this is due to the repeated chipping and/or sticking events at SiC precipitates in the silicon crystal, which momentarily hinder the motion of the wire at this position and stretch it beyond the elastic limit. This effect saturates after some time since the wire material hardens due to the plastic deformation. The second reason is the wire wear which reduces the diameter of the wire continuously up to about 10%, depending on the length of ingots, which are cut. Correspondingly the tension decreases gradually to the end. A total reduction of the tension by about 25% has been measured over an ingot length of about 65 cm. Wafer Thickness, Wire Diameter, and Particle Size Distribution The expected reduction of the wafer thickness in the future also requires a reduction of the kerf loss by using thinner wires. It has been demonstrated that one can slice 100 μm thick wafers with 80 μm wires and probably even less (Kaminski et al. 2009). Such investigations also showed that one has to adjust the mean size of the abrasive particle. The results given in Fig. 10 indicate that there is an optimum average grit size for each wire diameter (Meißner et al. 2012). Finer grain diameters yield however a reduced sawing velocity. In order to maintain a high sawing velocity, one needs higher forces on the wire or higher wire velocities (Eq. 1). There are limitations however because of the fracture strength of the wire and limitations on the maximum speed of a saw. Commercial steel wires have fracture stresses around 4 GPa and can bear forces around 40 N. Calculations of the wire stresses as a function of the total applied forces, which have been obtained from experimental results for different slurries, wire velocities, tensions, diameters, and grit sizes, show that for wires below 80 μm and ﬁner grit sizes, one approaches already the fracture stress (Wagner and Möller 2008). Because of these limits for commercial wires, one cannot increase the cutting velocity too much. At present it appears that F600 or F800 is already the best choice, so that it is not clear how much the wafer thickness and the kerf can actually be 11 Wafer Processing 281 reduced in the future. At present one can saw 120 μm wafers with wires of 80100 μm under production conditions with a high yield. Sawing with Structured Wires Experimental results as well as the experience from industrial sawing show that the sawing process can become unstable under certain conditions. An occasionally observed problem is the occurrence of deep grooves on the wafer surface. They are called outlet grooves or saw marks (Fig. 11). Such wafers cannot be processed further and therefore reduce the yield. A typical feature of saw marks is that they are mainly observed at the wafer side, where the wire leaves the sawing channel. They occur randomly and do not affect all wafers in one batch. The quantitative investigations of the problem indicate that they occur when insufﬁcient slurry is transported to the end of the sawing channel. A high sawing velocity vs, a low SiC load, and high slurry temperatures enhance the probability for the occurrence of saw marks (Möller et al. 2013; Retsch et al. 2014). In the industrial process, sawing conditions have to be chosen where saw marks can be avoided. This imposes limitations particularly on the sawing speed and thus the productivity. An improvement of the slurry-based sawing could be achieved by the use of structured wires. These are wires which contain periodic kinks at distances of millimeters (Fig. 12). The wires can be bent in a single plane, in two perpendicular planes, or with a helicoidal arrangement of the kinks. This ensures that the slurry enters the sawing channel more efﬁciently and results in a more stable sawing Fig. 10 Preston coefﬁcient as a function of the wire diameter for different grit sizes (Meißner et al. 2012) 282 H. J. Möller process, so that no sawing marks or inhomogeneities are visible on the wafer surface. The structured wires produce a slightly higher kerf loss of silicon compared to the straight wire. Because of the advantages, structured wires have been introduced in mass production a few years ago. An increase of the productivity and a cost reduction by about 40% has been reported because of less wire and slurry consumption. In addition, the total thickness variation (TTV) over the wafer area, which is a quality criterion, is also reduced. A further advantage is that the currently used slurry saws need only slightly modiﬁcations to accept structured wire. Despite these advantages it is generally assumed that sawing with structured wires is only a transient technology because sawing with ﬁxed abrasives has a higher potential for further cost reductions in the future. Fixed Abrasive Sawing Fixed abrasive sawing uses steel wires, which are coated with diamond particles. This technique has been used for a long time to cut hard materials such as sapphire crystals. It allows much higher cutting speeds and requires less wire and only a cheap cooling ﬂuid such as water. Compared to the established applications of ﬁxed abrasive sawing, the requirements in the PV industry are different. Wafers and wires have to be much thinner to reduce the loss of expensive silicon material. The quality of the wafer surface, such as roughness, thickness variation (TTV), and subsurface damage (SSD), has to be high and at least comparable to conventionally sawn wafers. Furthermore there must be a cost advantage. Since the diamond-coated wires are at present still more than 50 times more expensive (about 5070 /km), one has to reduce cost by higher sawing speeds and multiple use of the wires. Develop- ments of wires, sawing machines and process parameters have shown that it can be used to cut silicon wafers (ITRPV 2016), and some companies in Japan and Europe have already converted their production to this sawing technique. Fig. 12 Structured steel wire with kinks Fig. 11 Part of an as-sawn multi-crystalline silicon wafer surface showing saw marks ending at the right edge of the wafer (wire outlet side) 11 Wafer Processing 283 Figure 13 shows the surface of such a wire with ﬁxed diamond particles. There are mainly two techniques to ﬁx the particles on the surface: resin bonding and electroplating bonding. Resin bonding is cheaper to manufacture, but the particles are less strongly bonded. Therefore the wires cannot be loaded as much, which reduces the performance. In the electroplating technique, the particles are embedded in a nickel-coating layer, which gives a stronger bond, but at the expense of the cost. One can expect however that a mass production of such wires will reduce the wire cost substantially. Most of the industrial multi-wire saws today can also be used with ﬁxed abrasive wires. But the increasing requirements on the wafer quality and productivity can only be met if sawing machines are modiﬁed. One of the reasons is the following. Higher cutting speeds increase the forces on the wire, which responds by a larger wire bow bst according to Eq. (3). bst ¼ Fn 4ld þ lo ð Þ 8T (3) Fn is the total normal force on the wire and T the wire tension force. The free wire length ld and the cutting length lo are explained in Fig. 14. Comprehensive investi- gations of many different sawing conditions have shown that the wire bow is directly proportional to the total thickness variation (TTV) of the wafers (Fig. 15). Higher sawing velocities for the ﬁxed abrasive sawing therefore also lead to a higher TTV because of the force increase. Equation (3) shows, however, that one reduces the bow by decreasing the free wire length. Since ld depends on the distance of the wire- guiding rollers in a sawing machine, it can only be changed by a comprehensive structural reconstruction of the frame, which carries the rollers (Fig. 4). In the new generation of wire saws, the distance of the rollers is decreased in anticipation of the transition to ﬁxed abrasive sawing. Fig. 13 Wires with ﬁxed diamonds: (a) nickel electroplated and (b) resin bonded Fig. 14 Schematic diagram of the wire bow during sawing 284 H. J. Möller Apart from the necessary machine modiﬁcations, there are also several other problems connected with this technology which still have to be solved. In ﬁxed abrasive sawing, the machines are operated in the so-called pilgrim mode, where the wire is running back and forth. Typically the wire is running for several hundred meters in one direction before it is stopped, and the motion direction is reversed. In each cycle a few meters of new wire are added in one direction. Thus, the wire is reused, but each portion of the wire is used less and less in each cycle before it eventually is exhausted and permanently enters the uptake spool. From there it is ﬁnally discarded. The wire consumption is thus very much reduced. The forward and reverse lengths must be tuned for each saw, diamond wire type, and wafer speciﬁ- cation, in order to optimize the diamond wire lifetime and wafer quality. Since each wafer in a batch is partly cut by used and fresh wire, the surface properties vary over the wafer area. One also has to ﬁnd conditions for which a relatively uniform and good surface quality can be obtained. The most important parameter determining the throughput of a wire sawing process is the sawing velocity or the table speed at which the silicon ingot is driven through the wire web. Generally table speeds of more than 1 mm/min can be achieved, which is about twice the table speed of a comparable loose abrasive process. In spite of the higher table speed, the electrical energy consumption is normally only 50% of the corresponding loose abrasive sawing value, because of reduced friction. In addition, many more cuts can be performed between the time- consuming wire spool exchanges in lose abrasive saw processes, due to the pilgrim sawing mode and the higher sawing velocity (Bye et al. 2011). Wire wear and breakage are also an important problem, because of the high wire cost. Diamond-coated wires are more prone to wire breakage due to the protruding particles on the surface. The wire can get stuck in the sawing channel or during winding up in the spools. Diamond particles can also break out, which reduces the sawing performance. Since improved wires, sawing machines and adapted sawing conditions become available in the future one can certainly still expect a substantial improvement. A key element in the ﬁxed abrasive sawing process is also the choice of sawing ﬂuid, which is necessary to locally cool the diamonds and silicon ingot and to Fig. 15 Typical dependence of the total thickness variation (TTV) on the wire bow, here for certain sawing parameters (Meißner et al. 2012) 11 Wafer Processing 285 remove the silicon kerf (sawdust) from the sawing channel and wire. Whether cooling is actually necessary for the process is not quite clear yet, since the sawing performance does not depend on the temperature. More important is the cleaning effect of the ﬂuid, because silicon debris tends to stick on the wire. This reduces the sawing performance when the diamond particles do not protrude enough out of the coated wire. An advantage of the ﬁxed abrasive sawing technique is that low viscosity water-based sawing ﬂuids with additives aiming at dispersing the sawdust and protecting the wire from corrosion can be used. But the industry also still uses glycol-based sawing ﬂuids mixed with water to control the viscosity. The experimental results with ﬁxed abrasive wires are at present not as detailed as the slurry-based experiences (Buchwald et al. 2014; Behm et al. 2011). So far one has tried to optimize the process with respect to a low wire wear, a longer lifetime of the wire, process stability, higher sawing speeds, or an improvement of the wafer surface quality. One requires however also an adjustment of the following etching processes for texturization and further solar cell processes. The experiences so far show that ﬁxed abrasive sawing is able to cut mono- crystalline ingots into wafers of standard thickness of 180 μm with a good surface quality and is cost-effective. The competitiveness of the ﬁxed abrasive technique depends on the cost per wafer. In recent years the cost of the ﬁxed abrasive wires could already be reduced. Estimations of the cost per wafer can be made for the different techniques. The main factors are the cost for the wire and the slurry/ coolant supply, which depend on the sawing conditions. Table 2 shows estima- tions for conditions which are feasible today with new machines. It depends on the assumption how much wire is used for one wafer. The goal of 1 m/wafer for diamond wire sawing is currently only possible for monocrystalline silicon and machines of the latest generation. One can see in this case that the cost for sawing with structured and diamond-electroplated wires is comparably low. It is esti- mated however that the cost reduction potential for diamond-coated wires is higher. Based on such estimations, one expects that the technology will gradually be introduced in mass production over the next 10 years according to the tech- nology roadmap (ITRPV 2016). Table 2 Estimated supplies cost per wafer for the different sawing technologies (in 2016). The cost for the water-based coolants includes the estimated cost for additives Standard wire Diamond wire resin bonded Structured wire Diamond wire nickel bonded Wire cost/km 0.5  20  1  50  Wire length/wafer 250 m 8 m 40 m 1 m Wire cost/wafer 0.12  0.16  0.04  0.05  PEG/SiC slurry cost 0.15  Water coolant cost 0.02  Water/SiC slurry cost 0.02  Water coolant cost 0.02  Total cost/wafer 0.27  0.18  0.07  0.07  286 H. J. Möller Experimental results also show that ﬁxed abrasive sawing works less well for multi-crystalline silicon (Buchwald et al. 2013). The wafer surface quality is lower, and wafer breakage is more frequent. One therefore needs reduced sawing condi- tions for which a cost advantage is not given. Such a difference between the two materials is not observed for slurry-based sawing. The reasons for these differences between mono- and multi-crystalline silicon are not fully understood today. Whether multi-crystalline silicon can be sawn on an industrial scale with this technique is still uncertain but nonetheless also expected. Basic Sawing Mechanisms Slurry-based sawing has been optimized for many years now by practical experience and a better understanding of the basic mechanisms. Great progress has been made here over the years (Möller 2004, 2014), particularly for the slurry-based sawing with straight and structured wires. The sawing with diamond-coated wires is still under development, and therefore many of the fundamental problems are less investigated and understood. In the following, the main ideas for both techniques will be described. Slurry-Based Sawing There is a general agreement today that in the slurry-based sawing free-ﬂoating abrasive particles in the sawing channel remove material by rolling and indenting into the silicon crystal surface. The same interactions are known from lapping processes, and similar dependencies can be derived here. The coarser particles are in direct contact with the wire and the silicon surface. The wire is pushed against the particles and indents these particles into the silicon surface. The particles below the wire are mainly responsible for the material removal process, and the particles at the side of the sawing channel determine the damage on the wafer surface. The description of the loose abrasive process is based on the individual process of the interactions of a single particle with the crystal surface and the resulting microfracture processes. Under normal sawing conditions, the space between the wire and the crystal surface is ﬁlled with ﬂuid and abrasive particles (slurry). Experimental investigations with a high-speed camera indicate that the wire is in direct contact with the largest particles. They determine the distance between the wire and crystal surface. The smaller particles are ﬂoating more freely in between (Fig. 16). SiC particles are facetted and contain sharp edges and tips, which can exert very high local pressures. The microscopic material removal process is explained by the interaction of rolling SiC particles that are randomly indented into the crystal surface until small silicon pieces are chipped away. This rolling-indenting grain model forms the physical basis of the slurry-based wire sawing process. The same 11 Wafer Processing 287 mechanism also occurs in lapping brittle material surfaces with loose abrasive particles (Buijs and Korpel van Houten 1993). It is assumed that only the larger particles which are in direct contact participate in the material removal process. During sawing the crystal is pushed against the wires with a constant forward (feed) velocity. With increasing velocity, the total normal force Fn on the wire increases, and more and more particles are indented. Since the wire is elastic, it will bow under the force like a string. The resulting wire curvature adjusts to achieve an overall constant feed velocity. The forces are maximal directly below the wire in Fig. 16 but decrease toward the side faces. The cutting process at the side and the applied force are important because it determines the ﬁnal surface quality of the sliced wafers. This will be discussed in more detail in Chap. 13, Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials. Furthermore the fast-moving slurry builds up a hydrodynamic pressure in the ﬂuid, which may exert additional force on the wire. The hydrodynamic pressure also decreases toward the sides of the channel, because it is zero at the free slurry surface, where the slurry can leave the sawing channel. Particles in the channel will be pushed sideways because of a pressure difference and eventually be removed from the sawing channel when they reach the free slurry surface (see Fig. 11). The push effect depends on the particle size, and one can expect a rearrangement of the particle size distribution by the removal of larger particles from the sawing channel below the wire. In fact, several results have been reported, which show that the size distribution varies along the sawing channel. All processes together determine the local forces on the indenting particles. The individual process of the interaction of a single particle with the surface has been studied by micro-indentation experiments. The main process for material removal during sawing is the formation of lateral cracks and the chipping of material. The median and radial cracks partly remain. This crack system is part of the sawing damage which has to be removed for further processing of the wafers. Combining the rolling-indenting process of free abrasive grains with the fracture mechanics of brittle materials, a quantitative description of the material removal process could be derived. The basic ideas will be explained in the next section. For a detailed review, see Möller (2004, 2006, 2008). Fig. 16 Schematic diagram of the sawing channel. It shows the main forces that are assumed in the model (cutting direction upward here) 288 H. J. Möller Basic Modeling of the Slurry-Based Sawing Process During sawing the feed velocity of the ingot is equal to the material removal rate or velocity vs. Under steady-state conditions, it must be constant at any point below the wire. The material removal rate can be calculated from the number of indentation events m per contact area Atot and time Δt multiplied by the volume of material Vo that is removed in a single event vs ¼ mVo AtotΔt (4) The material volume Vo that can be removed in a single event is determined by the microscopic fracture processes under indentation of a single particle. These pro- cesses have been investigated in great detail for many materials. The results will be presented in more detail in Chap. 13, Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials. For silicon it has been found Vo ¼ γF2:2 p (5) where Fp is the indenting, vertical force on the particle and γ an experimentally determined geometry factor. The velocity proﬁle of the laminar ﬂow in the slurry leads to a rotation of the particles. If a rolling grain makes one indentation per cycle, the average time interval for a single indentation event is given by Δt = 2 dp/v, where v is the wire velocity and dp the particle diameter which is determined by the largest particles in the size distribution. The experimental results show that wire distance, particle size distribution, the temperature, and other parameters vary slightly along the sawing channel. For simplicity one assumes a constant wire bow which exerts a constant force Fn on the particles. The resulting average force on a single particle Fp is given by Fp = Fn/m, where m is the number of all the particles in contact under wire. One obtains then vs ¼ γ F1:2 p 2π rw lo dp vFn (6) The contact area below the wire has been expressed by Atot = π rw lo here with the wire radius rw and the cutting length lo. The remaining problem that has to be solved is to determine the average force Fp of the indenting grains in the slurry. The number m of particles in contact and the average force Fp are calculated from the grain size distribution. Commercial virgin SiC particle sizes can be described rather well by a Gaussian distribution. In general, the size distribution will differ from this form, particularly when slurry is transported along the sawing channel and particles are lost or break. It is useful therefore to assume a general size distribution, which shall be expressed by g(l) = no go(l), where go(l) is the normalized distribu- tion and no the total number of all particles in the contact volume below the wire segment (Fig. 17). For a wire segment at a distance h to the crystal surface all grains with a size l  h are in direct contact. The contact number m is calculated from 11 Wafer Processing 289 m ¼ no ðhmax h go lð Þ dl (7) where hmax is the maximum distance where just one particle is in contact in the contact area. If a force Fn is applied, the distance h decreases and more grains come into contact with the surface. Neglecting the indentation in the wire, the total force Fn is equal to the force on all particles, which are actually indented into the crystal surface: Fn ¼ no ðhmax h Find l  h ð Þ go lð Þ dl (8) where Find(x) is the force law that applies when a single particle is indented by a distance x into a surface. It depends on the elastic, plastic, and fracture behavior of the material. For sharp Vickers indentations and a brittle material Find can be given as a function of the indentation depth x = l  h by Find l  h ð Þ ¼ H α l  h ð Þ2 (9) H is the hardness of the material and α a geometry factor. Other force laws have been derived as well, depending on the shape of the indented grains. Combining Eqs. (7, 8 and 9), one can calculate the average force Fp = Fn/m on a single particle for a given size distribution go(l). An important result is that for a Gaussian size distri- bution Fp remains almost constant for sharp tips (Π  90 ), when the wire distance decreases (Fig. 18). Only the number m of indented particles increases. One can therefore simplify Eq. (7) and obtains the following expression: vs ¼ vsov Fn (10) Fig. 17 Schematic particle size distribution g(l) for a typical total number of particles in contact (here no = 70). Grains with a diameter l  ho are in contact both with wire and crystal surface. The total number m of particles in contact is proportional to the shaded area 290 H. J. Möller This is the well-known Preston equation, where the sawing rate is proportional to the wire velocity and the applied force Fn in the sawing channel. It has been derived here from a microscopic description of the basic particle interaction process with the material. The prefactor νso summarizes the geometry and material param- eters. The experimental observations have shown however that this is not sufﬁcient to describe all possible sawing conditions. In particular it does not take into account the observed dependencies on slurry properties such as the viscosity. A possible extension of the model is summarized and given next. Elasto-hydrodynamic Behavior of Slurry and Wire Many experimental results have shown that the slurry plays a role in the sawing process. However, considering the fundamental Preston equation, which has been derived from the micromechanical interaction between wire, particles, and crystal, the slurry properties are not taken into account here. One possibility to do that is to consider the hydrodynamic behavior of the slurry in the sawing channel (Möller 2014). The slurry consists of the ﬂuid and a high volume concentration of particles. In general one has to describe this as a two-phase ﬂow problem, but one can simplify this by assuming a single-phase system, where only the viscosity is changed by the addition of the abrasive powder. The viscosity changes can be described by Eq. (2). Because of the narrow sawing channel one can assume a laminar ﬂow of the slurry. A similar situation occurs in lubrication and polishing processes, where many funda- mental aspects for such a ﬂuid system have been derived from experimental and theoretical results (e.g., Larsen-Basse 1993). Some consequences can already be derived from a one-dimensional treatment of the hydrodynamic slurry transport. The starting point to describe the slurry ﬂow directly below the wire is the Reynolds equation @p @x ¼ 6 v η h  ho h2 (11) where x is the coordinate along the wire, h(x) the distance between wire and crystal surface, v the wire velocity, | the slurry viscosity, and p(x) the hydrodynamic slurry Fig. 18 Average normal force on a single particle Fp as a function of the wire  crystal distance for different tip angles φ of the indenting particle tip 11 Wafer Processing 291 pressure. ho is a constant which has to be derived from boundary conditions, for instance, for a low hydrodynamic pressure. In this case the wire is supported only by the particles which are indented and runs on average at the distance ho over the surface. For a given force Fn corresponding to the wire bow in Eq. (3), ho can be calculated then from Eq. (8). Increasing the hydrodynamic pressure in the slurry, the wire will deform elastically then and increase the distance between wire and surface. This reduces the forces on the individual particles and the number of particles in contact. The so-called hydroelastical behavior of the wire can be taken into account in the following way. The wire behaves like a pulled string, and the local curvature determines the resulting backward force Fn(x) normal to the wire, which can vary along the cutting length depending on the local conditions. Describing the shape of the bowed wire by the vertical displacement y(x), the force (per length) @Fn/@x and the corresponding pressure p are related to the (negative) curvature, which is the second derivative of y, by @Fn @x ¼ T y} p ¼ 1 π reff @Fn @x ¼  T π reff y} (12) where T is the tensile force along the wire and reff an effective wire radius due to the one-dimensional treatment (Fig. 16). The local width h(x) of the slurry transport channel can be expressed by h(x) = y(x)  yo(x), where yo(x) describes the shape of the crystal surface. One obtains then p ¼ po þ ph ph ¼  T π reff @2h @x2 po ¼ T π reff @2yo @x2 (13) where the crystal surface curvature has been expressed by the constant po, which has the dimensions of a pressure. Experimental investigations of the shape of the surface during cutting have shown that it is slightly curved and deviates only very little from a circular shape over the cutting length. If the wire is stabilized by the slurry pressure only, the hydrodynamic pressure in Eq. (11) has to be equal to the pressure from the wire bow in Eq. (13). Since po is assumed constant over the cutting length, the derivative is zero, and one obtains by inserting @3h @x3 þ 6 π vη reff T h  ho h3 ¼ 0 (14) This equation is the basis for the investigation of the hydrodynamic slurry behavior. It has no analytical solution and has to be solved numerically. With appropriate boundary conditions, one obtains the solution h(x) and can calculate ph(x) and p(x) from Eq. (13). The solution depends on the parameter ho, which is basically determined by the applied force Fn on the wire (Möller 2014). The numerical results in the next section show that the solution h(x) deviates only slightly from ho, whereas the pressure p(x) however can vary considerably along the sawing channel. 292 H. J. Möller Numerical Simulation of the Sawing Process Although the numerical solutions are very sensitive to boundary conditions, some general conclusions can be derived. Figure 19 shows the calculated pressure along the sawing channel position for two feed velocities vs or different applied forces Fn, respectively. The following boundary conditions have been assumed here: a constant pressure at wire inlet p(0) = pa, the outlet p (lo) = 0, and the wire distance at the outlet h(lo) = ho. The entry pressure of the slurry arises from the accumulation of ﬂuid at the wire inlet and has been estimated to be about pa  0.01 MPa (Bhagavat et al. 2000). In the calculations, it has been taken into account that the viscosity and the size distribution change along the sawing channel, because of the temperature increase, the accumulation of silicon and metal debris in the slurry, and the loss of larger particles, as has been observed experimentally. Apart from the entry region, the pressure decreases slightly ﬁrst due to the loss of larger particles and the reduction of the distance between wire and crystal surface. The hydrodynamic pressure is too small here to reduce the forces on the interaction particles, which are exerted by the bowed wire. A different situation occurs near the exit region of the sawing channel. A typical feature is a strong pressure increase before it drops to zero (for vs = 0.3 mm/min in Fig. 19). In this case the hydrodynamic pressure exerts higher forces on the wire and thus reduces the force on the particles, which are in direct contact and are responsible for the material removal. The force reduction can become so severe that no material can be removed any more. Even negative pressure values can occur near the wire exit (channel positions 0.9) when the sawing velocity is increased (for vs = 0.35 mm/ min in Fig. 19). This means that the basic assumption of a continuous slurry ﬂow is violated here. It has been suggested that the hydrodynamic pressure situation in this Fig. 19 Calculated hydrodynamic pressure p in the slurry ﬁlm along the wire length for two different feed velocities. Calculation parameters are ingot cutting length lo = 156 mm, wire speed v = 15 m/s, viscosity = 300 cP, wire tension force T = 25 N, slurry inlet temperature T = 22 C 11 Wafer Processing 293 part of the channel can lead to an instability of the wire motion (Möller et al. 2013). This will be discussed next. Slurry Flow Instability and the Origin of Saw Marks One can use the previous calculations to determine the parameters, which lead to high and negative pressures in the exit regions. Figure 20 shows a diagram with feed velocity versus wire velocity borderlines, which separate the parameter regions where stable and instable wire motion occurs. Important parameters are the feed and wire velocity, the SiC volume concentration and the fraction of silicon, which accumulates during sawing in the slurry. The results also depend on the grit size of the initial slurry. All factors, which change the slurry viscosity along the sawing channel, can have an effect on the position of the separation lines. The calculation results are in qualitative agreement with experimental observations and can be used to deﬁne guidelines for process windows. The parameter range for the wire and feed velocities, which is used in industrial production, is between 1018 m/s and 0.30.6 mm/min, respectively. Normally one saws with a ﬁxed feed and wire velocity, which determines a point in the diagram. Only values below the corresponding borderline are in the stability region. From the industrial perspective of high productivity and low cost, one will choose a large sawing rate, a small wire velocity, and a small SiC concentration. One can see from the diagram that these are conﬂicting requirements, which limits suitable sets of parameters. If one chooses parameters close to the borderline, small changes in the sawing parameters can easily lead to a shift from the stable to the unstable regime. It is therefore necessary to control the speciﬁcations of parameters such as the SiC load, the silicon concentration, or the grit size distribution quite tightly. Fig. 20 Feed velocity versus wire velocity diagram, showing stability regions of wire motion for different SiC and silicon volume concentrations 294 H. J. Möller Fixed Abrasive Sawing Considering the basic sawing mechanisms, the ﬁxed abrasive sawing is very differ- ent from the sawing with loose abrasives. Since the abrasive particles are ﬁxed on the wire, they scratch over the crystal surface. The damage pattern on wafers consists of many parallel scratches along the sawing direction. Since the scratches are mostly well separated one can investigate the process at single scratches under deﬁned conditions. Such investigations of the micromechanical processes in this case are still at the beginning, but some results are available and will be presented in Chap. 13, Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials. Based on these ﬁndings, one can already derive some basic results for the material removal rate by a scratching process. Basic Sawing Mechanism The fundamental process is the removal of material by scratching the particles on the wire over the crystal surface. Because of the size distribution of the diamond particles on the wire, only a certain number is in direct contact and their indentation depth varies. This is shown in Fig. 21 where for a certain distance between wire and crystal surface only the particles marked in red are in contact. Their number also depends on the density of particles on the wire. Because of the different sizes, the forces on the particles also vary. Correspondingly the depths of the scratches and thus the material that is removed vary also. Modeling of the Fixed Abrasive Sawing Process One can start again from the basic Eq. (5) for the case that the feed velocity of the ingot is equal to the material removal rate or sawing velocity vs. Under steady-state conditions, it must be constant at any point below the wire. In the scratching mode, the material removal rate can be calculated from the number of scratching particles m per contact area Atot and time Δt multiplied by the average volume of material Vo that is removed by a single particle. The volume Vo is given by Vo = Asc Δs where Fig. 21 Simulation of the number of particles on wire in contact with the crystal surface. The particle heights are normally distributed with a mean height of 3.5 μm. Particles in red are in contact for a given distance of 5.5 μm. (The crystal surface is shown at a greater distance for clarity) 11 Wafer Processing 295 Asc is the average cross section of the scratches and Δs the mean length of the corresponding scratch per time unit Δt. The time unit can be calculated from the wire velocity vs by Δt = Δs/vs. Inserting these expressions into Eq. (4) yields vs ¼ v mAsc Atot (15) The cross section of a single scratch depends on the force on the particle Fp, which causes the scratch. The calculation of the sawing rate is thus reduced to determine the average value of the cross section Asc as a function of the total normal force on the wireFn. Scratch tests with single particles under deﬁned conditions allow one to deter- mine Asc and many other features of the material removal processes for a single scratch. The dependence on the total force requires also measurements of the height and shape distribution of the particles on the wire, because the number of scratching particles increases when the total force increases and the wire is pushed closer to the crystal surface. Under normal sawing conditions, the size distribution will also change because particles change the shape and break or are pulled out. First results on single scratch tests are presented in Chap. 13, Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials. They show that the cross section of a single scratch Asingle sc ¼ cpFp increases in good approximation linearly with the applied force Fp. Since on average Fp = Fn/m one obtains from Eq. (16) vs ¼ vsov Fn (16) where vso = cp/Atot. This again is a Preston equation for the dependence on wire velocity and applied force if cp for a single scratch does not depend on these parameters. It is also independent on the particle density and size. The micromechanical processes which occur along the scratch are not yet fully understood. At present it is assumed that two modes of material removal occur. Although silicon is a brittle material, it can at low forces be deformed only, probably because of phase transformations into high-pressure phases, which are ductile (Gogotsi et al. 1999). Under these conditions scratching may occur similar to scratching in metals by chip forming. The advantage is that the damage of the surrounding material is rather low. At higher forces the material will break and material will be removed by cracking. This causes a more extended damage at and below the surface. The conditions under which the transition from the ductile to brittle mode in scratching occurs are not clear yet. The knowledge is however important since it affects the surface damage of the sawn wafers, which is an important criterion of the wafer quality. These processes will be discussed in more detail in Chap. 13, Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials. The modeling of the scratching process is still in an early stage. Recently ﬁrst attempts have been published (Liu et al. 2016). The calculated results are in agreement with Eq. (17) and allow to determine the proportionality constant vso. The micromechanical description here does not take into account the role of the coolant. If and how to include this in the sawing process is not clear at present. 296 H. J. Möller Recycling of Kerf Loss and Slurry In wafer processing the consumption of wire and slurry or coolant is an important cost factor (see Table 2). These consumables degrade in the cutting process and have to be replaced after some time. In the slurry-based sawing process, the steel wires become thinner by about 810% during one cut. They lose so much fracture strength that they have to be discarded afterward as metal scrap. On the contrary, it is already industrial standard in the PV industry to recycle the cutting ﬂuid, mostly polyeth- ylene glycol and the silicon carbide. In the recycling process, both components are recovered separately. New slurry is mixed from both components with an addition of a certain amount of fresh SiC. Typically 80% of the SiC is currently reused. In the ﬁxed abrasive sawing process, the diamond-coated wires can be used longer. The degradation mainly occurs by wire wear and breakout of the embedded diamonds. Recycling of the diamond wires has been reported in some cases but is not a standard process. It is expected however that recycling will increase over the next years. The cutting ﬂuid consists mainly of water and some organic additives. The development of better additives is still ongoing, and the possibility of its recycling may be taken into account in the future. Another important cost factor is the loss of silicon. In the previously described mechanical cutting processes, about 40% of that material is lost as cutting waste. The polysilicon consumption in 2015 all over the world was 240,000 tons/year, so it can be estimated about 100,000 tons/year of valuable silicon was wasted in the cutting processes. Although the cost of high-purity silicon powder, which is used for the crystal growth process, has dropped considerably down to 1520 Euro/kg, the loss still remains signiﬁcant. Therefore the incentive to recover silicon and to feed it again into the production chain is quite large. The treatments of PEG/SiC slurries and water or PEG-based coolants without SiC are different. In the ﬁrst case, one has to separate Si and SiC ﬁrst, which is difﬁcult to achieve because many physical and chemical properties are rather similar. This separation step will become obsolete with the increasing usage of the ﬁxed abrasive sawing technique and water-based coolants. Depending on the sawing process, the composition of slurry or coolant differs (Table 3), but in each case the amounts of silicon and metals are similar. One of the Table 3 Composition of typical PEG/SiC slurries for loose abrasive sawing and of water-based coolants for fixed abrasive sawing at the end of the sawing process Loose abrasive sawing (wt%) Fixed abrasive sawing (wt%) Water  2 9396 PEG 4556  SiC 4045  Metal/glass grit 12 12 Silicon grit 38 35 11 Wafer Processing 297 major problems in both cases is the contamination of the silicon with metal compo- nents from the steel wires and their coating layers, such as iron, nickel, copper, boron, phosphorous etc. But other elements such as aluminum, calcium, or sodium from glass fragments, when the wire cuts into the glass support beam of the ingots at the end of the cut, have also to be removed. In the ﬁxed abrasive process, the coolant will also contain carbon from the diamond coating of the wires. In addition, the kerf loss silicon has a high tendency to oxidize and because of the small particle size can accumulate large amounts of oxygen between 1 and 2 wt% on the particle surface. All these elements are detrimental to the wafer quality and are difﬁcult to remove. The removal requires extensive puriﬁcation procedures consisting of many steps to increase the purity to a level where the silicon can be used again. Because of the low price of high-purity silicon feedstock, recycling processes must however be cheap to be competitive. In recent years, many recycling processes have been investigated, which will be described in the next section. PEG/SiC Slurries In the standard sawing process, the PEG/SiC slurry enriches with silicon debris in each cut. The sawing performance decreases by the addition of the silicon micro powder. Up to about 8 wt% can be tolerated before the slurry has to be recycled. Figure 20 shows that one may leave the stability regime for sawing without saw marks when the amount of silicon increases. Depending on the number of ingots in each run, usually several cuts can be made, before the limit is reached. Figure 22 shows a typical size distribution of the Si and SiC particles in a used PEG slurry. Separation processes for these two components use the different phys- ical and chemical properties of the two components such as the size, the weight, the Fig. 22 Particle size distribution of a PEG/SiC slurry after sawing showing the enrichment with silicon micro powder 298 H. J. Möller solubility in different ﬂuids, the electrical surface charge (zeta potential), the differ- ent melting points, or the reaction with other elements. In a ﬁrst step, typically water or acetone is added and the mixture centrifuged to remove the PEG. This washing step is repeated several times. The metals and other elements are removed then by etching in a hydrochloride, hydroﬂuoride, or nitric acid solutions. In the following steps, Si and SiC are separated. Here a number of different techniques have been developed, which will be described next. Separation by Centrifugation and Hydrocyclones The potential feasibility of recovering silicon powder from kerf loss slurry waste by applying a centrifugation process has been demonstrated by (Lin et al. 2010). The essential step here is the mixing with a heavy liquid with a density between that of Si and SiC. This leads to a separation of the particles in the centrifuge tube with SiC at the outer side. The authors prepared a heavy liquid by mixing bromoform (CHBr3) and ethanol in different portions. The separated silicon layer was scooped out and washed with acetone so that the heavy liquid was removed. A solution of 10 wt% HF to remove the boron and calcium was also applied as washing. The variables that can be changed in the centrifugation process are the solid volume fraction, the heavy liquid density, the number of centrifugation steps, and the centrifugation and agitation time. In the best cases, a product with Si purity of 90.8 wt% and a yield of 74.1% was obtained. The disadvantage of the method is however the toxicity of bromoform. Another possibility is to combine the centrifugation process with a tuning of the surface potential of the particles (Liu et al. 2013). The surface potential can be measured by the zeta potential, which depends on the pH value in the aqueous solutions (Fig. 23). At pH 810 the surface charge of both Si and SiC particles is quite large, which means that the electrostatic repulsion is strong and keeps the particles in a dispersing and suspending state. Taking into account that the size of the particles is different, it can be assumed that under the same centrifugation treatment, the larger SiC particles will tend to settle down at the bottom of the centrifugal tube, Fig. 23 Measurements of the zeta potential of silicon and silicon carbide particles in an aqueous suspension (Liu et al. 2013) 11 Wafer Processing 299 and the smaller Si particles will be suspended in the upper section of the tube. This has actually been conﬁrmed and used to separate both. Under optimized conditions about 91.8 wt%, rich Si phase could be obtained. Si and SiC can also be separated by a hydrocyclone process, where only the liquid is rotated. An enrichment of up to 96% of silicon has been reported, showing that this is also an alternative route (Sergiienko et al. 2014). High-Temperature Treatment The high-temperature treatment (HT) method uses the difference in melting points of Si and SiC (Wang et al. 2008). The Si/SiC powders are compacted ﬁrst and then heated up above the melting point of silicon to about 1470 C in an argon atmo- sphere for several hours. As a result Si starts oozing out of the material in the form of clusters. Once the cluster formation is over, the material is cooled down. The Si clusters and the SiC can be separated easily by water cleaning due to the fact that Si clusters are nonadherent to the SiC particles. Beneﬁcial is also that most of the other impurities segregate toward the surface of the Si conglomerates during the cooling- down stage, where they are washed away from this conglomerate skin using hydroﬂuoric acid. A recovery rate of 45% has been obtained. Rapid Thermal Annealing Process In this process the Si/SiC powder is rapidly annealed for a short time of about 3 min by halogen lamps in an Ar atmosphere (Yang et al. 2015). The maximum temper- atures (14201500 C), the heating and cooling rates, and the holding times were varied. Whereas the SiC remains solid under these conditions, the Si particles melt and tend to aggregate depending on the conditions. Spherically shaped agglomerates with an average diameter of about 0.5 mm could be formed. The SiC, impurities, and excess oxide at the Si particle surfaces are removed by an acid etching. The morphologies of the Si agglomerates play an important role in the surface cleaning stage. Under optimized conditions 72% of the silicon could be recycled. The advantage over the previous high-temperature treatment is the shorter process time. Alloying Method The removal of silicon carbide from kerf loss slurry waste by the Al-Si alloying process has been studied by (Wang et al. 2012). After the initial PEG removal and cleaning procedure, the dried Si/SiC powder is mixed with aluminum powder and heated up to 1500 C for 1 hour. At this temperature both silicon and aluminum melt. Additionally the SiC reacts completely with the aluminum and forms the interme- diate phase Al4C3 at the top of the solidiﬁed ingot. Separating the top layer, an ingot remains which consists of an Al-Si alloy and needles of silicon. The silicon from the Al-Si alloy can be recovered by electrolysis or acid leaching. Phase-Transfer Separation Method In this method the hydrophobicity difference of Si and SiC is used (Hsu et al. 2014; Lin and Tai 2010). The basis is the formation of oil/water interfaces. This can be a 300 H. J. Möller single interface between the two ﬂuids or an emulsion with droplets which creates a much larger interface when many drops are formed. It has been found that particles, which are slightly hydrophilic with a contact angle of the particles slightly less than 90, adhere to an oil/water interface and stabilize oil-in-water emulsions. On the other hand, if the particles are slightly hydrophobic, they will stabilize water-in-oil emulsions. However, if the particles are either too hydrophilic or too hydrophobic, they will tend to stay in the water or oil phase, respectively, leading to unstable emulsions. During the Si/SiC separation, the SiC particles (contact angle 62.9) prefer to be adsorbed at the interface of oil-in- water emulsions, but Si particles (contact angle 49.2) tend to remain in the water phase. As a result, if the top phase is oil, SiC particles are adsorbed on the oil/water interface. This emulsion zone between the bulk oil and water phases plays a key role in keeping sufﬁcient SiC particles there without sedimentation. The separation efﬁciency is affected by several factors, such as the oil, oil/water volume ratio, pH value of the water phase, solid concentration, and agitation conditions. In practice the phase transfer process consist of three steps. The Si/SiC powder is dispersed in one of the liquids, e.g., water. Then an oil is added, and the liquids are agitated so that an emulsion forms with many oil droplets in the water. The droplet size is less than 600 μm. The SiC particles collect at the oil/water interfaces of the droplets, whereas the hydrophilic silicon particles remain in the water. After mixing the system is allowed to settle for about 12 hours. The two liquids separate again and form an interface, which collects the stabilized droplets. This enhances the separation of the silicon, which remains in the water. The recovery process depends on several operating variables, such as the pH value of the water, the oil/water volume ratio, and the solid concentration. Lin and Tai (2010) reported an overall recovery rate of 71.1%. The highest Si purity achieved was 99.1 wt%. Sedimentation in an Electrical Field Since Si and SiC particles in sawing waste have different densities, surface charges, and particle sizes, they can be separated by a combination of gravity and electrical ﬁelds (Wu and Chen 2009). The powder is dispersed ﬁrst in a solution and ﬁlled in a sedimentation cell. In addition, a constant electrical ﬁeld of about 12 V/cm is applied on the side of the cell. Charged falling particles are driven to one side of the cell where they can be collected after settling. The sedimentation velocity of the particles depends on their density and size. SiC has a higher density of 3.16 g/cm3 compared to silicon (2.33 g/cm3) and a larger average size in the sawing waste. The surface charge, which interacts with the electrical ﬁeld, depends on the zeta potential which is 20 mV for SiC and 41 mV for Si at pH 7. The pH value of the solution can be adjusted by a mixture of phosphoric acid and sodium hydroxide. After operation for up to 240 h, the silicon particles accumulate at the cell bottom at the positive (anode) side of the electrical ﬁeld and SiC particles at the negative (cathode) side. The difference in horizontal displacement can be used then to separate both components. Si-rich powders containing up to 92.4 wt% have been reported. 11 Wafer Processing 301 Hydrobromination The process consists of the reaction of the Si/SiC powder with HBr gas in a quartz ﬂow reactor. The gas reacts with silicon in the temperature range of 370450 C to yield tetra-, tri-, and di-bromosilanes according to the chemical reaction (n = 2  4): Si þ nHBr ¼ Si H4k Brk þ n  2 ð ÞH2 (17) Bromosilanes are in liquid state around normal temperature, which offers great advantages in their storage and transportation. It could also be shown that the addition of SiC promotes the reaction probably because of a better heat transfer (Tomono et al. 2013). If one replaces SiC by diamond, which occurs in water-based coolants in the diamond wire sawing process, the reaction is even more complete, which may reﬂect even higher thermal diffusivity. Since SiC and the contaminating metal elements do not react the liquid, SiH4-nBrn is very pure. The silicon itself is recovered by annealing the compound. Water-Based Slurries and Coolants Water may replace the cutting ﬂuid in the future, either in combination with SiC in the loose abrasive sawing or as coolant for ﬁxed abrasive sawing. Considering the recycling situation in the ﬁrst case, one still has the problem to separate Si from SiC. Essentially the same toolbox of separation and puriﬁcation techniques described in the previous section is available, but one may have to adapt process parameters to the different suspension. In the second case, the situation is different, because one can concentrate on the recovery of silicon alone and eventually of those additives which are more valuable. Here the major problem is to maintain a high purity of the silicon and keep the cost low. Some of the previous methods have been successfully applied to water-based suspensions. A more dedicated process has been developed recently to recycle silicon by using a thermal plasma process. The basis is an inductively coupled plasma torch, which was generated by the injection of argon or a mixture of argon/ hydrogen gas into an electrical arc. The plasma gas jet has a temperature of about 12,000 K and a velocity up to 1000 m/s. The key point is to inject the silicon powder from the kerf into the plasma gas stream, where it melts and vaporizes. Downstream the gas and the silicon rapidly cool down so that the silicon can be collected in a molten silicon bath. One of the problems is to remove oxygen and carbon from the particles, which can be achieved by changing the plasma jet velocity. Directional Solidification The previously described method yields a silicon material, which in most cases is not directly suitable as feedstock for high-quality solar cell material. The quality is 302 H. J. Möller comparable to metallurgical silicon and requires further puriﬁcation steps. Most detrimental are metal impurities, which reduce the bulk minority carrier lifetime. It is therefore necessary to remove the metals by further processing. The standard technique here is the melting of the material in a silicon nitride-coated quartz crucible followed by directional solidiﬁcation (part Crystalline Silicon Growth). Because of the low segregation coefﬁcient of most metals, the solidiﬁed silicon can be considerably puriﬁed by many orders of magnitude. The impurities are trans- ported to the top of the solidiﬁed ingot, which is removed then. One can repeat the process to improve the quality, but the high-energy cost for melting limits the application of number of solidiﬁcation steps. A remaining difﬁculty is that certain doping impurities such as aluminum, boron, or phosphorous, which also occur in the recycled material, are difﬁcult to remove by this process since their segregation coefﬁcients are closer to one. The same is the case for carbon, oxygen, sodium, and calcium. Although the impact on the material properties is different in each case, it is necessary to obtain lower initial concentra- tions from the previous processing steps. So far recovery processes of silicon have not reached the industrial scale probably because the cost are still too high, or the material still has not the required purity. The ﬂaws are complex expensive equipment or the use of poisonous media. Since less pure silicon may ﬁnd other applications in the future, for instance, as an input material for the processing of high-purity Si3N4, it is at present unclear whether silicon recycling as an additional feedstock material for the PV industry will actually be developed in the future. Nonetheless the technology roadmap predicts that recycling of silicon and of diamond wires from multi-wire sawing will increase over the next years (ITRPV 2016). Alternative Wafering Technologies Many attempts have been carried out to develop alternative kerﬂess technologies, which avoid the inherent drawback of the sawing process that valuable silicon and supply materials are wasted. Although multi-wire sawing is still a developing wafering technology, there are probably limitations when wafers with a thickness below 100 μm shall be produced in the future. Over the last decades, over 20 variants of kerﬂess wafering have been proposed, but few have demonstrated a lasting potential to be competitive in cost and quality (Henley 2010). The most direct route is the production of wafers directly from a silicon melt. The most advanced techniques are the edge deﬁned ﬁlm fed growth (EFG) technique (Wald 1981) and the string ribbon method (Ciszek 1981), which have reached the industrial production level. Less successful were the ribbon growth on substrate (RGS) method (Lange and Schwirtlich 1990) and the Direct Wafertechnology (Henley et al. 2008). All liquid-phase approaches have shown great difﬁculty in achieving good absorber yield and quality for standard wafers much below 200 μm. At the same time, the wire saw process has undergone impressive evolutionary improvements in the important areas of yield, quality, kerf loss, productivity, and 11 Wafer Processing 303 thickness reduction. As a result, the kerﬂess material efﬁciency advantage becomes moot if the next-generation wire saw processes yield stronger high- efﬁciency 120150 μm wafers. This is why these liquid-phase wafering methods either have been terminated in commercial production or have never started. Kerﬂess technologies, which can overcome the quality problem, start from solid monocrystalline silicon. The basic principle is to separate many thin wafers consecutively from a high-quality silicon monocrystal (Chap. 6, Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si). Several technologies have emerged following different approaches: induced cleaving (Brailove et al. 2010; Dross 2007), layer transfer (Bergmann et al. 2002; Petermann et al. 2012), and macropore reorganization (Depauw et al. 2009, 2010; Reuter 2008; van Nieuwenhusen et al. 2012). In the following, the approaches will be described in more detail. Cleavage Technologies The most advanced cleavage process uses ion implantation to induce cleaving. First, a high-energy proton beam (or other ions) is directed on the top surface of a Cz silicon ingot. The protons are implanted in a thin layer at a controlled depth under the surface of the silicon. The proton beam has both high current and high energy (24 MeV). This supplies a high heat load into the silicon crystal which can reach many tens or even hundreds of kilowatts and has to be removed by cooling the bricks efﬁciently. The silicon temperature is a critical part of the process because it can deteriorate the material quality. After the implant step, the silicon is induced to fracture, or cleaved, in a highly controlled manner, along the cleave plane deﬁned by the implanted ions. A single wafer of silicon is released, and the process is repeated on the newly exposed surface of the brick. The use of cleaving, rather than sawing, eliminates the waste due to kerf. A light ion implant avoids damaging the bulk silicon, while the low-energy (threshold) cleave process creates only surfaces with low defect density. Both factors contribute to maintain the high lifetime of the silicon crystal and high mechanical strength. Bulk lifetimes up to 0.5 ms have been reported. Roughness of the cleaved wafers is generally less than 1 μm. The process has also been veriﬁed to be capable of repeatedly detaching ﬁlms from an ingot without surface preparation between successive detachments. The ﬁlms continue to have repeatable roughness and total thickness variation (TTV  12%) without any interim polishing or other surface modiﬁcation steps. Such a wafering process (Direct Film Transfer, DFT) has been developed by the US company Silicon Genesis. Although it has not yet reached the industrial production stage, the technique appears to have some potential for an alternative wafering method. Other cleaving methods use high thermoelastic stresses over the surface. This can be achieved by depositing a thin polymer- or metal layer on the surface of a Cz crystal and applying a strong temperature gradient. If the stress exceeds the required fracture strength, a thin silicon layer can be cleaved from the brick with high yield. 304 H. J. Möller Generally one has to initiate the crack at the side of the crystal, for instance, by laser scribing. After cleavage the deposited layer is removed again. Layer Transfer Technologies Lift-off techniques have been developed for the microelectronic device technology. They have the potential to yield thin layers between 10 and 60 μm. The basic principle is the following. A high-quality thin silicon ﬁlm is grown on a sacriﬁcial layer, which can be separated and transferred to a low-cost substrate. Latest devel- opments use double porous silicon layers. On top is a layer of a low porosity for further growth of a high-quality epitaxial ﬁlm and underneath a high-porosity layer for separation (Fig. 24). The porous silicon is formed by electrochemical etching of a highly doped monocrystalline silicon crystal. Experimentally different techniques have been explored over the years. Typically vertical trenches are electrochemically etched with an HF-based solution into the surface of highly doped monocrystalline polished substrate. They are transformed into spherical voids by annealing at around 1100 C in a hydrogen atmosphere. The formation of a perfect detachable ﬁlm requires a speciﬁc aspect ratio and pitch. Today it is possible to form porous silicon layers with a desired void structure. Typically the top layer is 13 μm thick with a porosity of 2030%. This seed layer permits the subsequent growth of a high-quality epitaxial silicon ﬁlm. The bottom layer has an initial porosity in the 6075% range and a thickness of about 0.20.3 μm. After annealing several large buried plate-shaped voids form, which allow the further detachment of the epilayer. The separation process is done mechanically by breaking the small supporting pillars in the separation layer. It requires an initiation crack at the edges of the ﬁlm, for instance, by laser scribing. Depending on the thickness of the epitaxial ﬁlm, it can either be used as freestanding foil or if thinner has to be transferred to a supporting substrate. Solar cells have been fabricated in the epitaxial foil with efﬁciencies up to 15% and have the potential for efﬁciencies up to 18%. Despite a number of convincing lab-based solar cell showcases, there is no breakthrough of this technology at an industrial level so far. Fig. 24 Schematic layer sequence of an epitaxial ﬁlm grown on a double porous silicon layer 11 Wafer Processing 305 Conclusion The standard wafering process is the sawing with a single steel wire and an abrasive slurry made from polyethylene glycol and silicon carbide powder. It is however expected that the industry will change to the ﬁxed abrasive technology with steel wires coated with ﬁne diamond particles (Fig. 25). This reduces the cost of the supply materials by a factor of 45 and probably more. Although ﬁxed abrasive sawing is already suitable for monocrystalline material, it still does not fulﬁll the requirements for multi-crystalline silicon. The sawing with structured wires offers this possibility and cost advantages, but nonetheless one expects that this is a transient technology, which will also be replaced by the ﬁxed abrasive sawing method. To exploit all advantages of the technique, a modiﬁed sawing machine is necessary. Therefore the present generation of sawing machines, which is optimized for slurry-based sawing, has to be replaced in the future. Fixed abrasive sawing requires only water as a coolant. Therefore PEG and SiC recycling processes will be abandoned in the future. On the other hand, one will see more recycling of the silicon, because it can be recovered more easily from a water- based silicon kerf. Fig. 25 International technology roadmap of the development of diamond wire sawing for (a) monocrystalline and (b) multi-crystalline silicon (ITRPV 2016) 306 H. J. Möller Optimization of sawing processes is time-consuming because it depends on many parameters. Modeling the sawing process can be helpful here. Simulations require however a multi-scale approach starting from models for the micro- mechanical details in the sawing channel (on the micrometer scale) to the large scale description of the wire motion and coolant transport in the machine (on the meter scale). While a relatively good understanding of the micromechanical details of the slurry-based sawing has been achieved, the ﬁxed abrasive sawing process is still less understood. Wafers and wire will become thinner in the future and the mechanical stability an important issue. At present such thin wafers cannot be handled in the downstream process of solar cell and module fabrication. Thinner wafers require adapted solar cell designs, because they absorb less light. Such processes have not been implemented into the standard production chain. In addition, the following industrial processing steps, which require mechanical handling of the wafers, are even more prone to breakage because of the lower fracture toughness. Automation of the different process steps can reduce the handling stresses, but material issues have to be solved as well. Fast, inexpensive characterization methods have to be developed to maintain a better quality and production control. The limit of multi-wire sawing has certainly not been reached. Considering cost, quality, and productivity aspects, alternative, kerﬂess solutions do not seem to be ready to replace silicon shaping in the short term. If they may take over, when new solar cell technologies demand thinner wafers, cannot be foreseen at present. There- fore one can expect that wafer processing by multi-wire sawing will remain the dominant technology for the next decade. Cross-References Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization References T. Behm, W. Fütterer, C. Funke, S. Kaminski, H.J. Möller, R. Rietzschel, T. Wagner, Photovolt. Int. 11, 38 (2011) R.B. Bergmann, C. Berge, T.J. Rinke, J. Schmidt, J.H. Werner, Sol. Energ. Mat. Sol. C. 74, 213 (2002) M. Bhagavat, V. Prasad, I. Kao, J. Tribol. 122, 394 (2000) 11 Wafer Processing 307 A. Bidiville, K. Wasmer, J. Michler, P.M. Nasch, M. Van der Meer, C. Ballif, Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 18, 563 (2010) A. Brailove, S. Kang, A. Fujisaka, F. Henley, In Proc. 25th EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2010), p. 1613 R. Buchwald, K. Fröhlich, S. Würzner, T. Lehmann, K. Sunder, H.J. Möller, Energy Procedia 38, 901 (2013) R. Buchwald, S. Würzner, K. Fröhlich, M.Fuchs, S. Retsch, T. Lehmann, H. J. Möller, In Proc. 40th IEEE Conf. (IEEE, Denver, 2014), p. 654 M. Buijs, K. Korpel van Houten, Wear 162, 954 (1993) J. I. Bye, L. Norheim, B. Holme, Ø. Nielsen, S. Steinsvik, S. A. Jensen, G. Fragiacomo, I. Lombardi, In Proc. 26th EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2011), p. 956 T. F. Ciszek, In Crystals 5 (Springer, Berlin, 1981), p. 183 V. Depauw, I. Gordon, G. Beaucarne, J. Poortmans, R. Mertens, J.-P. Celis, J. Appl. Phys. 106, 033516 (2009) V. Depauw, Y. Qiu, K. Van Nieuwenhuysen, I. Gordon, J. Poortmans, J. Prog, Photovolt. Res. Appl. 18, 102 (2010) F. Dross, Appl. Phys. A-Mater 89, 149 (2007) Y. Gogots, C. Baek, F. Kirscht, Semicond. Sci. Technol. 14, 936 (1999) F. Henley, In Proc. 35th IEEE PVSC (IEEE, Denver, 2010), p. 387 F. Henley, A. Brailove, A. Lamm, T. Heerwagen, E. Sauar, M. Nese, R. Steeman, B. Hammel, In Proc. 23rd EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2008), p. 2017 H.P. Hsu, W.P. Huang, C.F. Yang, C.W. Lan, Sep. Purif. Technol. 133, 1 (2014) ITRPV, 7th International Technology Roadmap for Photovoltaic (VDMA, Frankfurt, 2016) L. Johnsen, K. Gastinger, L. Bjerkan, R. Rietzschel, H.J. Möller, Proc. 24th Europ. PVSEC (WIP, München, 2009), p. 1248 S. Kaminski, R. Rietzschel, T. Wagner, C. Funke, H.J. Möller, Proc. 24th Europ. PVSEC (WIP, München, 2009), p. 1299 S. Kaminski, T. Wagner, R. Rietzschel, W. Fütterer, C. Funke, H.J. Möller, Proc. 25th Europ. PVSEC (WIP, München, 2010), p. 1315 H. Lange, I. Schwirtlich, J. Crystal Growth 104, 108 (1990) J. Larsen-Basse, Wear 166, 93 (1993) Y.C. Lin, C.Y. Tai, Sep. Purif. Technol. 74, 170 (2010) Y.C. Lin, T.Y. Wang, C.W. Lan, C.Y. Tai, Powder Technol. 200, 216 (2010) S. Liu, K. Huang, H. Zhu, Sep. Purif. Technol. 118, 448 (2013) T. Liu, P. Ge, W. Bi, Y. Gao, Mater. Sci. Semi. Proc. (2016.) in press D. Meißner, B. Hurka, R. Rietzschel, H.J. Möller, O. Anspach, Proc. 27th EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2012), p. 1076 D. Meißner, St. Schönfelder, B. Hurka, J. Zeh, K. Sunder, R. Köpge, Th. Wagner, A. Grün, H. Hagel, H.J. Möller, H. Schwabe, O. Anspach, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 120, 346 (2014) H.J. Möller, Adv. Eng. Mater. 6, 501 (2004) H.J. Möller, Phys. Stat. Sol. (a) 657, 203204 (2006) H. J. Möller, Crystal sawing technology, in Crystal Growth Technology, ed. by H. J. Scheel, P. Capper (Wiley, VCH Weinheim, 2008), p. 457 H.J. Möller, Wafer Processing in Handbook of Crystal Growth, vol 2, 2nd edn. (Elsevier, 2014.) chapter 18 H.J. Möller, S. Retsch, R. Rietzschel, Proc. 28th EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2013), p. 927 J.H. Petermann, D. Zielke, J. Schmidt, J. Prog, Photovolt. Res. Appl. 20, 1 (2012) S. Retsch, S. Jentsch, H.J. Möller, Proc. 27th EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2012), p. 947 S. Retsch, M. Fuchs, H.J. Möller, Proc. 29th EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2014), p. 123 M. Reuter, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 704, 9396 (2008) R. Rietzschel, A. Senf, H.P. Seelmann-Eggebert, S. Kaminski, T. Wagner, C. Funke, H.J. Möller, Proc. 25th Europ. PVSEC (WIP, München, 2010), p. 1596 S.A. Sergiienko, B. Pogorelov, V.B. Daniliuk, Sep. Purif. Technol. 133, 16 (2014) 308 H. J. Möller L. J. Struble, G.K. Sun, in Flow and microstructure of dense suspensions, ed. by L. J. Struble, M. Zukoski and D. Maitland - Symposia Proc. Vol. 289 (Materials Research Society, Pittsburgh, 1993), pp. 173 K. Tomono, H. Furuya, S. Miyamoto, Y. Okamura, M. Sumimoto, Y. Sakata, R. Komatsu, M. Nakayama, Sep. Purif. Technol. 103, 109 (2013) K. Van Nieuwenhuysen, V. Depauw, R. Martini, J. Govaerts, M. Debucquoy, H.S. Radhakrishnan, I. Gordon, T. Bearda, K. Baert, J. Poortmans, Proc. 27th EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2012), p. 2471 T. Wagner, H.J. Möller, Proc. 23th EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2008), p. 1315 F.V. Wald, Crystals 5 (Springer, Berlin, 1981), p. 147 T.Y. Wang, Y.C. Lin, C.Y. Tai, R. Sivakumar, D.K. Rai, C.W. Lan, J. Crystal Growth 310, 3403 (2008) H.Y. Wang, Y. Tan, J.Y. Li, Y.Q. Li, W. Dong, Sep. Purif. Technol. 89, 91 (2012) Y.F. Wu, Y.M. Chen, Sep. Purif. Technol. 68, 70 (2009) C.F. Yang, H.P. Hsu, C.W. Lan, Sep. Purif. Technol. 149, 38 (2015) 11 Wafer Processing 309 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 12 André Stapf, Christoph Gondek, Edwin Kroke, and Gerhard Roewer Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 312 Basics/Fundamentals of Wet-Chemical Silicon Treatment ..................................... 314 Chemical Properties of Silicon Surfaces .................................................... 314 Dissolution of Silicon ........................................................................ 316 Etching Rate ................................................................................. 320 Isotropic and Anisotropic Behavior ......................................................... 321 Cleaning of Silicon Surfaces .................................................................... 324 Types of Contaminations .................................................................... 325 Overview of Cleaning Solutions ............................................................ 327 The RCA Standard Cleaning Procedures ................................................... 331 Alternative Cleaning Sequences: Ozone, Ohmi-Clean, and IMEC-Clean ................. 333 Etching ........................................................................................... 336 Chemical Aspects of Acidic Etching ........................................................ 336 Chemical Aspects of Alkaline Etching ...................................................... 346 Concluding Remarks/Summary ................................................................. 353 Cross-References ................................................................................ 356 References ....................................................................................... 356 Abstract Wafer preparation for silicon PV includes wet chemical cleaning, etching, and texturization steps. Aqueous solutions containing either acids or strong bases result in very different etch rates. Underlying chemistry is used for all three applications. Typical cleaning mixtures such as RCA-SC1 and RCA-SC2, SPM, and dHF are introduced with their respective properties as well as acidic etching systems like hydroﬂuoric acid/nitric acid (HF/HNO3) and alkaline A. Stapf (*)  C. Gondek  E. Kroke  G. Roewer Institute of Inorganic Chemistry, TU Bergakademie Freiberg, Freiberg, Germany e-mail: Andre.Stapf@chemie.tu-freiberg.de; Christoph.Gondek@chemie.tu-freiberg.de; Edwin.Kroke@chemie.tu-freiberg.de; Gerhard.Roewer@chemie.tu-freiberg.de  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_17 311 mixtures such as potassium hydroxide/isopropanol (KOH/IPA). While the latter is used for texturing monocrystalline wafers due to the anisotropic etching behavior, the former HF-containing systems are generally used for isotropically texturing multicrystalline silicon wafers. Fundamental chemical, physical, ther- modynamic, and kinetic aspects of these systems are presented and discussed. In all cases, it has to be pointed out that a complete understanding of the reaction mechanisms causing the observed properties is still missing to a large extent. Therefore, many aspects of silicon cleaning, etching, and texturization have only been optimized empirically. Further studies are necessary to provide a basis for future improvements, which are not only focused on scientiﬁc aspects but also on environmental and economic issues. Keywords Wet-chemical treatment  Cleaning  Etching  Texturization  Silicon surface  Silicon dissolution  Saw damage removal  Contaminations  Impurities Introduction Silicon surfaces must be cleaned, etched, and textured (structured) at different steps during the fabrication processes for various silicon devices in microelectronics (e.g., integrated circuits (IC), micro-electro-mechanical structures (MEMS)) and photo- voltaic (PV) industries. Material contamination levels and surface qualities are different in these industrial branches and depend on the performance of devices within the respective branch. In PV, optimized crystalline silicon-based cells and their structures require lower contamination levels in the bulk material and at surfaces as well as improved light trapping to achieve higher efﬁciency. Process steps concerning cleaning, etching, and texturing of silicon surfaces become more and more crucial and contribute to the present challenges in these ﬁelds. Addition- ally, the strong pressure on prices permanently leads to cost optimization of the cleaning, etching, and texturization concepts. Cleaning and etching are closely related in silicon processing. Generally, contaminations/impurities may be either physisorbed on the surface or, like in most cases, also chemisorbed or even incor- porated in the nanometer thick surface layers. Thus, in order to clean silicon surfaces removing all relevant organic, inorganic, and particulate impurities and sometimes also structural defects, it is crucial that silicon surface layers have to be dissolved, i.e., etched. Small etch rates are sufﬁcient for this purpose because only very thin layers in the lower nanometer range have to be removed. The aims of cleaning, etching, and texturing sequences in solar cell processing/treatment of PV silicon are summarized in Table 1. Several technical opportunities to etch, texture, or also clean silicon surfaces are presented in Fig. 1. The application of different methods depends on respective tasks and the available process chain. All these methods have advantages and disadvan- tages. Dry etching and cleaning are important in microelectronics, but currently 312 A. Stapf et al. rarely used in silicon PV industry. A major drawback of dry etching processes is the fact that the formation of nanoparticles and dust is generally more difﬁcult to be avoided, compared to wet chemical processing steps. In PV, wet-chemical processes are widely used in crystalline silicon solar cell processing. This whole chapter focuses on aqueous wet-chemical cleaning, etching, and texturization sequences and methods. At ﬁrst, the basics on wet-chemical silicon treatment are given, focusing on the general dissolution process of silicon in aqueous media (section Basics/Fundamentals of Wet-Chemical Silicon Treatment). After- ward, different typical kinds of contaminations on silicon surfaces and their removal are discussed. Industrially applied cleaning sequences are considered and compared with respect to solar cell manufacturing (section Cleaning of Silicon Surfaces). Silicon etching is subdivided into acidic and alkaline etching sequences in solar cell processing (section Etching). Alkaline etching is mostly applied for monocrys- talline (100) silicon wafers, whereas acid etching is used for fast texturing or Table 1 Aims of cleaning and etching (texturing and polishing) processes in crystalline silicon solar cell processing Cleaning Etching Surfaces as clean as necessary Removal of: Molecular organic impurities Atomic/molecular inorganic impurities Particulate impurities Deﬁned silicon removal Removal of surface-near defects (e.g., saw damage) Texturization for better light trapping PSG/BSG removala,b Polishingb aPhosphorous-silicate glass/boron silicate glass bNot considered in this chapter etching processes for semiconductor industries wet chemical etching potential-free alkaline acidic electro-chemical photoelectro- chemical without light absorption dry etching chemical reactive-gas etching plasma etching physical sputtering (electron beam etching, laser beam etching) physical-chemical reactive-ion etching (RIE) Fig. 1 Etching (and also cleaning and texturing) methods have been developed for the numerous different processing steps in semiconductor and other silicon-based industries. For silicon PV production the lower left two options are relevant and considered in this chapter, namely, wet chemical acidic and alkaline etching (as well as cleaning and texturization) 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 313 polishing processes on multicrystalline substrates. Current trends for further optimi- zation are also presented. Defect etching as a further important wet chemical etching application for silicon and other semiconductor surfaces is rarely used in silicon PV processing and therefore not considered in this chapter. Furthermore, nonaqueous solutions, which also may be used for the wet chemical treatment of silicon surfaces, are not taken into account. Basics/Fundamentals of Wet-Chemical Silicon Treatment The basic processes, including the chemical reaction steps and mechanisms of the wet-chemical treatment of silicon, are very complex and yet not fully understood. Chemical and electrochemical reactions between the silicon surface (surface prop- erties, doping), the type of the particular etching or cleaning mixture, and the gas phase are important as well as the mass and heat transfer processes by convection and diffusion steps. The respective thermodynamic driving force and kinetics of the chemical processes provoked by the solutions during the treatment of the silicon surface are crucial for applications of mixtures for either cleaning or etching of silicon (Fig. 2). Chemical Properties of Silicon Surfaces Considering silicon cleaning and etching processes the chemical properties of the surfaces are of particular importance besides the microscopic and macroscopic Fig. 2 Schematic overview of processes during silicon dissolution in electrolyte solutions 314 A. Stapf et al. roughness and defects. Bare silicon surfaces with lots of dangling bonds are not stable under atmospheric conditions. The dangling bonds are typically saturated under formation of Si-H or Si-O bonds. In addition, also organic and inorganic molecules are adsorbed. Saturation with hydrogen leads to an H-terminated hydro- phobic surface, which is common for many as-etched silicon surfaces (Fig. 3 (left)). So-called native oxide layers are formed under oxygen-containing atmosphere or in the presence of oxidizing species. Thickness and completeness of the native oxide depend on the oxidizing conditions. Typical fragments of hydrophilic native oxide layers are shown in Fig. 3 (right). FT-IR spectroscopy and photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS or PES) are suitable methods to investigate the chemical species or groups at silicon surfaces. Some characteristic vibrational bands of hydrogen-terminated and various oxidized silicon surface groups are shown in Table 2. Referring to the thermodynamic driving force of the chemical silicon dissolution processes discussed below, a Si-Si bond should be cleaved more readily than a Si-H bond, represented by the bond dissociation energies in Table 3. Nevertheless, in chemical silicon dissolution reactions, the heterolytic bond cleavage yielding ionic Si Si Si Si Si Si Si Si Si Si Si Si H H Si Si Si H H Si Si Si Si Si Si Si Si Si Si Si Si Si Si H OH Si Si Si H H Si Si O O O O O O O Fig. 3 Schematic presentation of typical parts of hydrogen-terminated silicon surfaces (left, (100) silicon surface with exemplary monohydride and dihydride structure) and a silicon surface, which is partly oxidized (right, (100) silicon surface) Table 2 Typical FT-IR sensitive vibrational bands of silicon surface groups (Hull 1999) Surface species Vibrational band Reference SiH (νs(Si-H)) 2083 cm1 Chabal et al. (1993) SiH (νas(Si-H)) 2071 cm1 Chabal et al. (1993) SiH2 (νs(Si-H)) 2099 cm1 Chabal et al. (1993) H2Si. . .SiH2 (ν(Si-H)) 2108 cm1 Wang et al. (2005) SiH2 (νas(Si-H)) 2114 cm1 Chabal et al. (1993) SiH3 (ν(Si-H)) 2134 cm1 Cerofolini et al. (2008) SiOSi (ν(Si-O)) 1106 cm1 Schomann and Graff (1989) H2Si(O)2. . .Si(O)H2 (ν(Si-H)2) 2141 cm1 Wang et al. (2005) H2Si(O)2. . .Si(O)H2 (ν(Si-H)3) 2185 cm1 Wang et al. (2005) HSi-O-Si(O)H (ν(O2Si-H)) 2165 cm1 Weldon et al. (1997) HSi(O2)-O-Si(O2)H (ν(O3Si-H)) 2252 cm1 Wang et al. (2005) SiOH (ν(SiO-H)) 3680 cm1 Gupta et al. (1991) 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 315 species (one reaction product gets both electrons of a bond) is much more important than the homolytic bond dissociation yielding radical species (electrons are distrib- uted equally). Dissolution of Silicon As shown in Fig. 2, wet-chemical treatment and dissolution of silicon materials involve three phases: solid silicon, the etching solution, and gaseous reaction products. Generally, all involved reactions and process steps are inﬂuenced by speciﬁc thermodynamic and kinetic aspects. In order to etch and dissolve silicon materials, Si-Si bonds have to be cleaved. For this, an average energy of 226 kJ mol1 is necessary, giving rise to silicon dissolution under formation of more stable Si-O or Si-F bonds (see section Chemical Properties of Silicon Surfaces). Ther- modynamically, a Si-Si bond is cleaved more readily than a Si-H bond (see section Chemical Properties of Silicon Surfaces, Table 3). Formally, the dissolution includes the oxidation of silicon surface atoms (Eq. 1) and its complexation (Eq. 2) (Zhang 2001). oxidation : Si surface ð Þ þ n  m ð Þ hVB þ ! Sinþ surface ð Þ þ m eCB  n  4; m  4; n  m (1) dissolution : Sinþ surface ð Þ ! Si4þ solution ð Þ þ 4  n ð ÞeCB  (2) hVB + = hole in the valence band; eCB  = electron in the conduction band This means that silicon valence electrons must be removed from surface bonds giving rise to the injection of holes into the valence band. Concerning the speciﬁc Table 3 Selected experimental bond energies of Si-E bonds from literature, measured data, for bond homolysis reactions (Si-E ! Si + E) in the gas phase. Analogous data for heterolytic bond cleavage in condensed phase is not available but may be more relevant for Si dissolution reactions (Luo 2007; Walsh 1981) Si-E Bond dissociation energy Reference Si-Si (crystalline silicon) 226 kJ mol1 Walsh (1981)a Si-Si (H5Si2-Si2H5) 284 kJ mol1 Walsh (1981)b Si-Si (H3Si-SiH3) 309 kJ mol1 Walsh (1981)b Si-H (H3Si-H) 376 kJ mol1 Walsh (1981)b Si-H (Si-H) 293 kJ mol1 Walsh (1981)b Si-H (F3Si-H) 418 kJ mol1 Walsh (1981)b Si-F (F3Si-F) 669 kJ mol1 Walsh (1981)b Si+-O 478  13.4 kJ mol1 Luo (2007) aCalculated from the heat of atomization of elemental Si, derived from the enthalpy of formation (ΔHF0) bMeasured in the gas phase, 8 kJ mol1 316 A. Stapf et al. oxidation step of silicon, three types of etching processes are classiﬁed and schematically shown in Fig. 4: anodic etching, electroless etching, and chemical etching (Kelly et al. 2001). Currently, any anodic etching (electrochemical cell with external circuit) is not relevant for cleaning and etching of silicon in photo- voltaics. Electroless dissolution means that the electron transfer occurs at open- circuit potential. Thereby, the rate of oxidation of the semiconductor (hole con- sumption) is equal to the rate of reduction of the oxidizing agent (hole injection). The electron-hole diffuses in or at the silicon surface. So, the hole is generated at one certain silicon atom but the ﬁnal oxidation and dissolution steps take place at another silicon atom (Fig. 4, middle). The term chemical etching is used to describe a dissolution mechanism which involves only local exchange of electrons between the semiconductor surface bonds and the etching agent in solution. In this case, any free charge carriers do not participate in the reaction (Kelly et al. 2001). Two effective mechanisms are deﬁned referring to the number of electrons removed by the involved oxidizing agent: divalent (oxidizing agent generates only two electron holes (hVB +) or alternatively one electron-hole plus one captured conduction band electron (eCB ) per dissolved silicon atom) and tetravalent (all four charge carriers (hVB + and/or eCB ) for complete oxidation of one silicon atom are injected by the oxidizing agent) (Gerischer et al. 1993; Kolasinski 2009; Lehmann 2002; Turner 1960). In the aqueous solution, different silicon species are present depending on oxidizing and complexing agents as well as on the pH value. From a thermodynam- ical point of view, silicon is not noble and should be exothermically converted in water into SiO2 and hydrogen (see Eq. 3). The two main reaction steps are the oxidation of silicon and the reduction of protons eventually delivering SiO2 and hydrogen (Eqs. 4 and 5). Depending on the pH value SiO2 is dissolved leading to mixtures of [H2SiO3]n, [HSiO3 ]n and [SiO3 2]n (Eqs. 6, 7, 8 and 9). In alkaline aqueous media, the chemical dissolution process is exothermic leading to the formation of H2 and silicate anions (exact chemical nature depends on pH/degree of protonation). In the literature, these silicate species are usually summarized as SiO2. In acidic media, in principle, a thin layer of SiO2 is formed. If ﬂuoride ions are present in such acidic solutions, silicon is dissolved delivering hexaﬂuorosilicate ions (see Fig. 6 and Eq. 10). The thermodynamic behavior of silicon in water without ( ) ( ) ( ) Si Ox Red Red Ox Si4+ [SiOx(OH)4-x]x- SiF6 2- / HSiF6  Si Si4+ [SiOx(OH)4-x]x- SiF6 2- / HSiF6  + + + + + + + + Anode Si d Ox Red Red Ox + + + + Si4+ [SiOx(OH)4-x]x- SiF6 2- / HSiF6  X X ... e.g..F, OH Fig. 4 Schematic silicon dissolution via anodic etching (left), electrochemical electroless etching (middle), and chemical etching (right): silicon is oxidized by an oxidizing agent (Ox + e Red) at electroless and chemical etching; furthermore, often complex redox reactions are involved also in solution (symbolized by Red and Ox). Photo- and metal-assisted dissolution of silicon are further options, but not considered here 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 317 and with the complexing ﬂuoride ions is schematically summarized in the Pourbaix diagrams in Figs. 5 and 6, respectively. Consequently, for any wet-etching processes of silicon, the products of the oxidation reaction must be soluble in the respective solution. Thus, in principle one has to distinguish between two different etching systems: acidic solutions with ﬂuoride ions complexing the oxidized silicon atoms and alkaline solutions in which silicon is dissolved by OH-ions under formation of silicates (Pourbaix 1974). -2 -1.5 -1 -0.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 0 2 4 6 8 E (V) pH H2SiO3 (1) (2) Si SiF62- (3) (4) Fig. 6 Pourbaix equilibrium diagram for the system silicon-ﬂuoride-water at 25 C, c(Si) = 0.001 mol L1, c(F) = 1.0 mol L1, at pH  6.7 (depending on c (F)) SiF6 2 hydrolyzes under silica formation. Line (1) see Eq. 11, Line (2) see Eq. 5, Line (3) see Eq. 10, Line (4) see Eq. 9 0.0000001 0.000001 0.00001 0.0001 0.001 0.01 0.1 1 10 -2 -1.5 -1 -0.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 c(H2SiO3+HSiO3-+SiO32-) (mol L-1) E (V) pH H2SiO3 HSiO3- SiO32- (1) (2) (4) (3) Si (S4) (S3) Fig. 5 Pourbaix equilibrium diagram for the silicon-water system at 25 C also showing the inﬂuence of the pH on the solubility of silica (S, dotted lines): (1) decomposition of water (Eq. 11), (2) formation of hydrogen (Eq. 5), (3) and (4) oxidation of silicon (red lines (3, S3) belong to constant concentration of dissolved silica of 106 mol L1, blue lines (4, S4) belong to varying concentration of dissolved silica depending on the silicon solubility (considering silica in the form of quartz)), pH = 10 equilibrium of H2SiO3* and HSiO3 * (Eq. 7), pH = 12 equilibrium of HSiO3 * and SiO3 2* (Eq. 8), *different silica species referring to respective monomer H2SiO3 or H4SiO4) 318 A. Stapf et al. Si sð Þ þ 2 H2O lð Þ ! SiO2 sð Þ þ 2 H2 g ð Þ þ 339:5 kJ (3) Si sð Þ þ 2 H2O lð ÞSiO2 sð Þ þ 4 Hþ aq ð Þ þ 4 e E0 ¼ 0:857 V  0:059 V  pH (4) H2 g ð Þ2 Hþ aq ð Þ þ 2 e E0 ¼ 0:000 V  0:059 V  pH (5) SiO2 sð Þ þ 2 OH aq ð Þ ! SiO3 2 aq ð Þ þ H2O lð Þ (6) H2SiO3 aq ð ÞHSiO3  aq ð Þ þ Hþ aq ð Þ log HSiO3=H2SiO3 ð Þ ¼ 10 þ pH (7) HSiO3  aq ð ÞSiO3 2 aq ð Þ þ Hþ aq ð Þ log SiO3 2=HSiO3    ¼ 12 þ pH (8) Si sð Þ þ 6 OH aq ð ÞSiO3 2 aq ð Þ þ 3 H2O lð Þ þ 4 e E0 ¼ 1:697 V pH ¼ 14 ð Þ (9) Si sð Þ þ 6 F aq ð ÞSiF6 2 aq ð Þ þ 4 e E0 ¼ 1:24 V pH ¼ 0 ð Þ (10) 2 H2O lð ÞO2 g ð Þ þ 4 Hþ aq ð Þ þ 4 e E0 ¼ 1:228 V  0:059 V  pH (11) Besides the thermodynamics, kinetic facts are also important for realizing any silicon dissolution processes. As displayed in Fig. 2 there are mass transport processes (species diffusion from the solution to the surface, surface diffusions of the reactants at the interface electrolyte/silicon, diffusion of the reaction products away from the surface) and chemical surface reactions (heterogeneous, activation barrier). The knowledge of some activation energy values (EA) helps to draw conclusions referring to the rate determining step. If the chemical dissolution process is thermodynamically allowed, it runs kinetically diffusion controlled (EA  20 kJ mol1), reaction controlled (EA  40 kJ mol1), or mixed reaction-diffusion con- trolled (20 kJ mol1  EA  40 kJ mol1) (Atkins and de Paula 2010; Löwe et al. 1990). The diffusion controled process types often occur in the case of fast surface reactions (high chemical reactivity). It commonly results in polished surfaces. The rate of diffusion processes can be affected by convection steps, temperature, and additives like surfactants. The process type reaction control results from the striking activation barrier of chemical surface reactions, such as passivation effects, steric hindrance, and electrostatic repulsion. Frequently, in the case of reaction controlled dissolution process of silicon, the oxidation/electron hole injection and/or the formation of transition states are considered to act as the rate determining 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 319 steps (Kolasinski 2003; Löwe et al. 1990). Emerging surface texturing phenomena in consequence of the applied etching process indicate that a surface reaction is the rate limiting step (Löwe et al. 1990). Different kinetics and surface morphologies are observed depending on the etching system (acidic, basic), concentrations of the etch bath components (also additives), the electronic state of the silicon material (doping, defect density), and the temperature. Etching Rate The etching rate (or etch rate) r is frequently used to quantify the reactivity of crystalline silicon in etching mixtures. The etch rate r is deﬁned to be the quotient of the thickness (Δd) of the etched silicon layer per side and the immersion time (tetch). There are three different methods which can be used to determine the etch rates experimentally:  The thickness of the removed silicon (Δd) can be measured directly with microscopic means such as atomic force microscopy (AFM), laser scanning microscopy (LSM), or scanning electron microscopy (SEM), if the surface of a wafer has been masked by an inert coating. To avoid mistakes, fracture surfaces or polished cross-sections should be analyzed in the case of SEM. If relatively thick layers are removed from the surface, a proﬁlometer may also be used.  Etch rates can also be determined by analyzing the amount of dissolved silicon in the etching solution before and after the etching experiment if the overall size of the etched silicon surface is known.  The thickness of the removed silicon layer per side Δd can also be calculated from the mass loss obtained by differential weighing of silicon wafers etched on both sides (ρ(Si) = 2.33 g cm3). A ¼ m0 ρSi d0 Δd ¼ d0  d1 ¼ d0  m1 ρSi A ¼ d0 1  m1 m0   r ¼ Δd 107 2 3600 tetch ¼ nm s per side h i m = mass [g], ρ = density [g cm3], A = area of the wafer [cm2], d = thickness of the wafer [cm], tetch = etching time [h] (Fig. 7). The etching rate depends strongly on the composition of the etching solution (oxidizing agent, complexing agent, pH-value, temperature, stirring, and viscos- ity), on the (electronic) state of the silicon material (doping (n-type, p-type), crystallinity, surface properties, and saw damage), and on further parameters 320 A. Stapf et al. such as temperature, bias, gas bubbling, convection, and light exposure (see Table 4). Etching rates are usually speciﬁed in units of nm s1 or in μm min1 (1 nm s1 = 0.06 μm min1). Isotropic and Anisotropic Behavior Silicon crystallizes in the diamond crystal lattice. The three most relevant silicon crystal planes referring to their etching rate are (100), (110), and (111). In depen- dence on the etching mixture composition, the silicon atoms in these three planes react with speciﬁc reaction rates with the etching solution, i.e., silicon atoms are dissolved differently rapid on each surface. In case of alkaline solutions, high ratios (100):(110):(111) of the different etching rates are observed, for example, 35:70:1 in TMAH (tetramethylammonium hydroxide, 20%, 80 C) and 80:160:1 in KOH (35%, 70 C) (Gosálvez et al. 2010). This reactivity dependence on the different crystal planes gives rise to the so-called anisotropy (Table 5, Fig. 8 right). A d0 d m0 m1 Fig. 7 Parameters used for etching rate determination Table 4 Etch rates of typical isotropic etching solutions on silicon wafers (Hull 1999) Etchant (Ratio of volumes) Temperature Etch rate 1 HF (48%): 4 H2O 25 C 0.00005 μm min1 1 HF (49%): 1 H2O2 (30%): 20 H2O 20 C 0.00012 μm min1 1 HF (49%): 21 HNO3 (70%) 25 C 13.8 μm min1 8 HF (49%): 75 HNO3 (70%): 17 CH3COOH 25 C 5.0 μm min1 5 NH4F (40%): 126 HNO3 (70%): 60 H2O 25 C 0.15 μm min1 Table 5 Etch rates on various crystal planes in typical alkaline anisotropic etching solutions referring to different crystal planes on silicon wafers (Hull 1999) Etchant Temperature Plane Etch rate KOH (34%) (Sato et al. 1999) 70 C 100 110 111 0.6 μm min1 1.3 μm min1 0.009 μm min1 TMAH (22%) (Hull 1999) 90 C 100 110 111 0.9 μm min1 1.8 μm min1 0.018 μm min1 NaOH (1.5%), IPA (3%) (Vazsonyi et al. 1999) 84 C 100 wafer 0.9 μm min1 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 321 On the other hand, in acidic solutions, there is typically no difference concerning the chemical reactivity of different lattice planes. In an HF-HNO3 solution (10% HF, 56% HNO3, 25 C) the ratio of the etching rates on the above-mentioned crystal planes is 1.10:1.00:1.05 (Schwartz and Robbins 1961). This leads to an isotropy  the etching rates are almost independent of the crystal surface orientation type (Table 4, Fig. 8 left). In order to explain the resulting different etching rates in case of Si(100), Si(110), and Si(111) surfaces in alkaline solutions, several approaches were made. The simplest approach is based on the speciﬁc values of radii and distance of the silicon atoms in the crystal lattice. Depending on the crystal plane type, the voids in-between the terminal silicon atoms have different sizes. This makes a speciﬁc attack of the oxidizing agent easier on (100) as well as (110) planes (Fig. 9) (Buchholz 2015). Another explanation for the anisotropic etching behavior is based on the mobility of silicon surface atoms: The native silicon surface is terminated with hydrogen atoms. The anisotropic dissolution of silicon is initiated by a nucleophilic attack of OH species on these Si-H surface bonds (see also section Chemical Aspects of Alkaline Etching). The transition state of this chemical reaction involves most likely a penta- coordinated silicon atom. Therefore, a change from tetrahedral to a pentavalent conﬁguration would be necessary. The trigonal bipyramidal conﬁguration embodies the most energetically favored pentavalent state. However, only Si-H or Si-OH surface groups are able to change their relative position, the angles of the back bonds are more (100) (111) (111) Fig. 8 Schematic drawing of isotropic (left) and anisotropic etching behavior (right) 2.22 Å 1.60 Å (100) (110) 2.22 Å 5.43 Å 7.68 Å 1.40 Å 7.68 Å 2.22 Å 1.04 Å (111) Fig. 9 Radii of and distances between silicon surface atoms on (100), (110), and (111) surfaces 322 A. Stapf et al. or less ﬁxed by the solid lattice (Fig. 10). On Si(111) surfaces with three ﬁxed Si-Si back bonds the creation of a trigonal bipyramidal conﬁguration is blocked. Therefore, a dissolution of silicon atoms in Si(111) surfaces needs a much higher activation energy than the dissolution of Si(100) with only two ﬁxed Si-Si back bonds. This hypothesis is supported by atomistic kinetic Monte Carlo and cellular automaton simulations (Allo- ngue et al. 1993; Glembocki et al. 1985; Gosálvez 2003). After the Si-OH bond is formed, the attraction of electrons by high electroneg- ativity of the OH-group gives rise to a strong polarization of the Si-Si back bonds resulting in an attack of water to break these bonds. The low dissolution rate on Si (111) surfaces may also be understood as an insufﬁcient polarization of three rear Si-Si bonds by only one Si-OH surface bond. On Si(100) surfaces, two Si-OH bonds are able to polarize two Si-Si back bonds (Baum and Schiffrin 1998; Campbell et al. 1993; Kelly and Philipsen 2005; Lehmann 2002). In reality, all these inﬂuences may sum up to the observed anisotropic etching behavior of crystalline silicon. However, the angles of the resulting pyramids on the silicon surface are in many cases independent of the etching rates but depend on the type of the planes of the crystal lattice of silicon (Fig. 11). The angles in a cubic crystal lattice such as in silicon can be calculated by the Miller indices of two planes (h1k1l1 and h2k2l2, e.g., 100 and 110) and lead to the values given in Table 6. (100) Si H H OH- OH H H Si- 180 Si- Si Si H OH- Si 144,5 Si- OH H Fig. 10 Comparison of the formation of pentavalent transition states on silicon (100) and (111) surfaces during anisotropic treatment 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 323 Cleaning of Silicon Surfaces Contaminations on wafer surfaces (originating from different sources: operator, wafer handling, equipment, materials, and processes) exist as physisorbed or chemisorbed ions, uncharged molecules and atoms, thin ﬁlms, discrete particles, clusters, and (less important) adsorbed gases/vapors (Fig. 12). Some types of contaminations tend to diffuse from/to the surface, into the bulk and at interfaces (e.g., Cu-atoms). These detrimental effects cause a decrease of the minority-carrier lifetime leading to degradation of device performance and yield. Particles or ﬁlms may cause blocking of etching and/or rinsing and can even lead to short-circuits if they are conducting. All in all, the various effects of contaminants are complex and depend on the nature, location, and quantity of the speciﬁc type of impurity. Thus, techniques to avoid contamination and processes to generate very clean wafer surfaces have become critically important for high-performance applications. Impuri- ties, such as metal ions, metals, and particles are especially detrimental if present on silicon surfaces during high-temperature processing (thermal oxidation, diffusion, etc.), because they may spread and diffuse into the silicon bulk material. Impurities must also be removed from silicon surface before and/or after lower temperature steps. Wet-chemical process steps, including surface preparation prior to emitter diffu- sion and prior to passivation or ﬁring steps, are critical parts in crystalline silicon solar cell manufacturing. Therefore, wet-chemical cleaning accounts for an impor- tant part of the total consumption of chemicals, and a relatively small improvement in chemical usage has a large overall effect (Heyns et al. 1999). Thus, the objective of the cleaning (also surface preparation, surface con- ditioning) is, in fact, to prepare chemically a surface for the subsequent processing steps of a silicon wafer to produce an integrated circuit (IC) or a solar cell. That 54,74 70,52 Fig. 11 Angles of resulting pyramids on silicon surfaces after anisotropic chemical treatment Table 6 Angles between silicon (100), (110), and (111) planes Formula Planes Angles between planes cos α ¼ h1h2þk1k2þl1l2 ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ h2 1þk2 1þl2 1 ð Þ h2 2þk2 2þl2 2 ð Þ p (100) (100) 0 90 (110) 45 90 (111) 54.74 (110) (110) 0 60 90 (111) 35.26 90 (111) (111) 0 70.52 324 A. Stapf et al. means removal of particles and chemical impurities from the silicon surface without damaging or deteriorating the substrate surface. Both the solar cell manufacturing and semiconductor device processing require several similar surface cleaning and conditioning steps. But, there are also inherent differences between the impurity levels of solar cells and microelectronic devices. In the case of the standard industrial solar cell production with a much higher through- put of wafers in comparison with the number of IC-related wafers, the number of cleaning steps is limited and/or the cost of chemicals should be markedly less than in semiconductor industry production lines. Types of Contaminations Surface contamination and its control, prevention, detection, and measurement are important topics. Referring to the basic line currently used within the front-end of a standard solar cell production sequence (pre-cleaning  texturing  saw- damage-removal  cleaning  pre-diffusion-cleaning  diffusion  rear emitter removal  PSG (phosphor-silicate-glass)/BSG (boron-silicate-glass) removal  post-diffusion cleaning) the relevant cleaning procedures are focused on:  Past-sawing: particles, slurry residual, surfactant removal, and deglueing after wafering (optionally integrated into wafer separation process)  Pre-cleaning/surface conditioning: (partially integrated into saw damage etch) organic residuals and metal contaminants (from sawing)  Pre-diffusion cleaning: porous silicon removal/strip and rinsing (most important metal cleaning step), alkali metal ions and anionic (i.e., physisorbed, e.g., SO4 2) contaminants  Surface cleaning/conditioning after PSG/BSG etching and/or edge isolation: metals from the wafer bulk material have been gettered by/into the PSG/BSG layer  Organic layer removal or intermediate cleaning (e.g., photoresist removal) in the case of more complex cell structures  Silicon etching/cleaning if direct plating on the silicon substrate after laser opening was employed Fig. 12 Examples for impurities on silicon surfaces 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 325 In summary, metals and metal ions, respectively, to a certain extent also organic contamination in some cases, embody the main subjects of cleaning. Metal Contamination Metal contaminants originate primarily from the wafer sawing process and silicon contact with metal containing equipment and solutions. Metal contamination has a dramatic impact on the solar cell performance (Chap. 17, Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon). Metal ions in low concentration level already can cause a large reduction in bulk minority carrier lifetime for both p- and n-type solar cells. Figure 13 illustrates this relation between metal contamination and minority carrier lifetime for the element iron (Fe). Therefore, minority carrier lifetime  as a key for high-efﬁciency cells  depends signiﬁcantly on removal and avoidance of metals. The metal contamination removal is one of the very important criteria for a cleaning step during solar cell manufacturing. There are different deposition mechanisms when metallic impurities contaminate the silicon wafer surface in aqueous solutions. The variety of metal species present in the solution signiﬁcantly depends on the pH-value, the redox potential of the solution, and concentrations of available complexing agents:  Adsorption of metal species on the silicon surface  Electrochemical deposition (electrochemical reduction of the metal ion by silicon): Si þ 4=n Mnþ ! Si4þ þ 4=n M 103 102 101 100 10-1 10-2 Minority carrier lifetime (μs) Bulk Fe concentration (cm-3) 109 1010 1011 1012 1013 1014 FeB-pairs Fei Fig. 13 The dependence of the minority carrier lifetime on the bulk iron contamination level (limited by iron in the form of interstitial iron Fei or FeB-pairs), adapted from Istratov et al. (2000) 326 A. Stapf et al.  Precipitation of the metal ion (hydroxide/oxide in particular in alkaline solution (Mori et al. 1995)): Mnþ þ n OH ! M OH ð Þn ! MO OH ð Þn2 þ H2O  Film inclusion of the metal ion close to the silicon surface  Chemisorption of a metal ion hydrate (especially on hydrophilic silicon surfaces and in acidic media, Si-OH groups act as weakly acidic cation exchangers  formation of Si-O-M groups (Loewenstein et al. 1999; Loewenstein and Mertens 1998)): Si-OH sð Þ þ Mnþ aq ð ÞSi-OM n1 ð Þþ sð Þ þ Hþ aq ð Þ Referring to the acceptable/tolerable concentration of contaminative transition metal ions, the up-to-date target level has to be below 1010 atoms/cm2. Ongoing sufﬁcient cleanliness levels varied in the range of 1  1010 to 10  1010 atoms/ cm2. Such metal contamination concentration values for the silicon surface correspond to acceptable concentrations of 10100 ppb in the ﬁnal cleaning solution. Acidic etching solutions have an intrinsic metal removal power. In contrast, after alkaline texturing removal of metal contaminations is a key issue (Schweckendiek et al. 2012). Organic Contamination Silicon wafers can be contaminated by organic material from surfactants, organic additives, operating equipment, packaging materials (e.g., softeners from plastic foils), and volatile compounds from the air. Organic contamination can hinder surface conditioning, surface texturing, and deposition processes on the surface. In particular, alkaline texturing processes can be detrimentally inﬂuenced by traces of organic contaminants. In solar silicon processing, organic contaminants are less critical compared to metallic contaminants. According to the SIA (semiconductor industry association) roadmap, organic matter may be present at a concentration level below 0.1 monolayers or 1  1014 carbon atoms/cm2  which is a representa- tive target of the cleaning process to choose. However, the portion of organic residues must be reduced signiﬁcantly if oxides are grown on silicon substrates to gain good oxide quality (Schweckendiek et al. 2012). Overview of Cleaning Solutions Extraction of contaminants via physical desorption (e.g., supported by ultrasonic) and chemical dissolution of impurities lead to soluble species. Chemical dissolution is done via chemical reaction of the cleaning agent mixture with contaminants (oxidation and dissolution) and/or by slight surface etching (e.g., removal of impurities in the native oxide layer (including chemical etching)) (Fig. 14). That means certain 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 327 chemical cleaning processes may result in removal of only a few atom layers of the silicon material (micro-etching) without changing the silicon surface morphology. Liquid wafer cleaning is based on the application of ultrapure or deionized (DI) water, mineral acids, inorganic bases, weak organic acids and bases (also with surfactant activity, as for example toluenesulfonic acid), metal ions complexing compounds (ligands), silicon oxidizing components (e.g., hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), ozone (O3)) and partially surfactants) (Table 7). Organic solvents are also used (e.g., isopro- pyl alcohol (IPA)). Different process sequences are established for speciﬁc applica- tions which can be realized in a variety of technical equipment (including also rinsing, drying, storing of wafers) for high-volume fabrication/manufacturing. The relevant processes of wafer cleaning in this equipment are based on immer- sion processors/wet benches including ultra- as well as mega-sonic support or brush scrubbing support. They can be realized also alternatively by spray processes to reduce the consumption of cleaning and rinsing solutions. Removal of Organic Contaminants Removal of organic contaminants from silicon wafers can be accomplished by using strong oxidizing mixtures. The speciﬁc components and their volume ratio, as well as the oxidation process temperature (130 C), depend on the type of the organics Fig. 14 Basic chemical cleaning mechanisms: Oxidation and dissolution of the contamination or surface etching 328 A. Stapf et al. Table 7 Overview of cleaning solutions and their purpose Solution Chemicals Common names and synonyms Purpose/ removal of Ammonia/ hydrogen peroxide/ water NH3(aq)/H2O2/H2O RCA-1, SC-1 (standard-clean-1), APM Light organics, particles, and metals Hydrochloric acid/ hydrogen peroxide/ water HCl/H2O2/H2O RCA-2, SC-2 (standard-clean-2), HPM Metals, oxides, hydroxides Sulfuric acid/ hydrogen peroxide H2SO4/H2O2 Piranha, SPM, Caros acid Organics Choline/ hydrogen peroxide/ water [(CH3)3N(CH2)2OH]OH/ H2O2/H2O Choline peroxide Metals, organics, and particles Tetramethyl- ammonium hydroxide/ water [(CH3)4N]OH/H2O TMAH Light organics, particles, and metals Persulfuric acid/ sulfuric acid H2S2O8/H2SO4 PDSA, Caros acid Organics Ammonium persulfate/ sulfuric acid (NH4)2S2O8/H2SO4 SA-80 Organics Ozone/ water O3/H2O Ozonized water Protective oxide regrowth, organics Sulfuric acid/ ozone/ water H2SO4/O3/H2O SOM (sulfuric ozone mix) Organics Hydroﬂuoric acid/ hydrochloric acid/ ozone HF/HCl/O3 Si-oxide, metals Hydroﬂuoric acid/ water HF/H2O HF, dHF (diluted HF) Si-oxide Hydroﬂuoric acid/ ammonium ﬂuoride/ water HF/NH4F/H2O BOE (buffered oxide etch), BHF (buffered hydroﬂuoric acid) Si-oxide Nitric acid HNO3 Organics, metals Hydrochloric acid/ water HCl/H2O HCl, dHCl (diluted HCl) Metals, metal oxides Hydroﬂuoric acid/ nitric acid/ water HF/HNO3/H2O Slight Si etch, metals Hydroﬂuoric acid/ hydrogen peroxide HF/H2O2 Slight Si etch, metals Acetic acid/ water H3CCOOH/H2O Deglueing (continued) 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 329 to be destroyed. Typical mixtures are sulfuric acid-peroxide-mixtures (SPM, Pira- nha etch or Caros acid, H2O2/H2SO4 or H2SO5) and alternative additives instead of H2O2 like sodium and ammonium persulfate (Na2S2O8/(NH4)2S2O8) or peroxydi- sulfuric acid (H2S2O8). Ozone containing cleaning solutions gain importance for organic removal (sulfuric acid-ozone-mixtures (SOM)). After application of H2SO4- containing cleaning mixtures, an extensive rinsing process is necessary to remove sulfur contamination completely from the surface. Besides H2SO4 sometimes acetic acid is applied. Furthermore, alkaline hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) solutions are able to remove organic contaminants (see RCA clean SC1). Removal of Metal Impurities Metal contaminations are generally removed by diluted hydrochloric acid (HCl) or nitric acid (HNO3) solutions, because of their good solubility in these solutions. Some metal contaminations are present in the reduced state (such as Cu) and have to be oxidized. Metals in the silicon oxide layer are removed with hydroﬂuoric acid (HF) containing solutions (e.g., diluted hydroﬂuoric acid (dHF)). For some metals, also aqueous ammonia solutions (NH3(aq), see RCA clean SC1) or further complexing ligands (e.g., EDTA (Titriplex IITM), Titriplex VTM, DEHP, cTRAMP, Deferoxamine) may be used (Fig. 15). Diluted hydroﬂuoric acid (dHF) mixtures or aqueous mixtures of HF and ammo- nium ﬂuoride (NH4F, HF/NH4F-mixture (buffered oxide etch (BOE) or buffered hydroﬂuoric acid (BHF)) can also be used for solar cell processing steps not considered in this handbook, such as etching of SiNx, phosphorous silicate glass (PSG), and borosilicate glass (BSG). Thin SiOx layers on the wafer surface are removed by a brief immersion in dHF solution at room temperature. In consequence of this dHF-treatment, the wetting characteristic is changed from the initially hydrophilic to a hydrophobic surface. This effect has its source in the chemical production of an H-terminated silicon surface (H-Si bonds). If desired, a SiOx-ﬁlm can be regrown by exposure of the H-Si- bonds to solutions containing oxidants like hydrogen peroxide or ozone. Therefore, HF solutions can remove metal ions from the silicon surface. Table 7 (continued) Solution Chemicals Common names and synonyms Purpose/ removal of Organic acid (e.g. citric acid)/ water RCOOH/H2O Deglueing Hydroﬂuoric acid/ hydrochloric acid/ water HF/HCl/H2O Slight Si etch, metals, Si-oxide Additives/surfactants in acidic or neutral or alkaline media Acids or bases or buffer solutions with anionic or cationic or nonionic surfactants Particles, organics, metals 330 A. Stapf et al. The RCA Standard Cleaning Procedures The ﬁrst systematically developed cleaning process  primarily applied in micro- electronics  for bare or oxidized silicon wafers was based on a two-step oxidizing and complexing treatment with hydrogen peroxide solutions: (i) an alkaline mixture at high pH followed by (ii) an acidic mixture at low pH and rinsing with DI water. The choice of chemicals was based on their speciﬁc chemical reactivity, oxidation potentials, reagent purity, reagent volatility, safety, and economy. The process was developed by RCA (Radio Corporation of America) (Kern and Puotinen 1970). The RCA clean is a highly efﬁcient and powerful cleaning process. For solar cell fabrication, there is also high wafer throughput needed. Therefore, cleaning pro- cesses for solar cell fabrication are often modiﬁed to achieve higher throughputs and lower cost of ownership. In the ﬁrst treatment step (standard clean 1  SC-1), the wafers are exposed to a hot mixture (7585 C) of ammonia/hydrogen peroxide/water (APM). This pro- cedure was designed to remove organic surface ﬁlms by the oxidative breakdown and dissolution to expose the silicon or oxide surface for concurrent or subsequent decontamination reactions. Some group IB (Cu, Ag, Au) and IIB (Zn, Cd) metal ions and ions of several other metals, including Ni2+ and Co2+/3+, are dissolved and removed by the complexing effectiveness of ammonia (NH3(aq), formation of water-soluble ammine complexes). Copper (II), for example, forms the well- known soluble ammine complex [Cu(NH3)4]2+. Both the solvating action of NH3 (aq) and the powerful oxidizing action of alkaline H2O2 give rise to the resulting cleaning effect (Mori et al. 1995). Furthermore, the SC-1 treatment causes disso- lution of the thin native oxide layer on silicon at a low rate as well as the formation of a new silicon oxide which support the removal of particles and chemical impurities on the surface. The second treatment step (standard clean 2  SC-2) exposes the rinsed wafer to a hot mixture (7585 C) of water-diluted hydrochloric acid/hydrogen peroxide mixture (HPM). This procedure was designed to remove alkali ions and other cations such as Al3+, Fe3+, and Mg2+ that form NH3(aq)-insoluble hydroxides or Fig. 15 Oxidization and complexation of a metal impurity on a silicon surface 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 331 oxides (e.g., AlO(OH), FeO(OH), Mg(OH)2, Zn(OH)2) in the SC-1 solution at the wafer surface. Alkaline conditions like in SC-1 favor the redeposition of metallic contamination on the wafer surface (Martin et al. 1999). The SC-2 treatment does not etch the silicon or silicon oxide and does not force any beneﬁcial surfactant activity for removing particles. The solution compositions are based on ultra-ﬁltered DI water, electronic grade NH3(aq) (29% (w/w)), electronic-grade HCl (37% (w/w)), and high-purity unstabilized H2O2 (30% (w/w)). The impact of the purity grade of the used chemicals on the cleaning efﬁciency was studied by Anttila et al. regarding Fe, Cu, Zn contamination (Anttila et al. 1992). The usual volume ratios of H2O:H2O2: NH3(aq) for the solution used in the SC-1 step are 5:1:1 to 7:2:1. The usual volume ratios of H2O:H2O2:HCl for the SC-2 solution are 6:1:1 to 8:2:1. The thermal instability of H2O2 especially in SC-1 and to a less extent also in SC-2, respectively, necessitates the use of freshly prepared mixtures. The treatment time is between 10 and 20 min (Kern and Puotinen 1970). Several improvements to the original RCA cleaning procedure were published by Kern et al. (Kern 1993). Among others, mega sonic systems were recommended for cleaning and rinsing of wafers. Treatment temperature (7075 C), as well as treatment time, could be reduced considerably. One optional process step is the wafer treatment with sulfuric acid/hydrogen peroxide mixture (SPM) before SC-1 (APM) followed by stripping the formed oxide/hydroxide ﬁlm with dHF (50 H2O: 1 HF (48% (w/w)) for several seconds. This dHF stripping to remove the oxide layer can also be applied after SC-1 to prepare the wafer surface for the subsequent SC-2 step. Since the hydrous oxide ﬁlm from the SPM or SC-1 treatment may trap trace impurities, its removal before the following step (SC-1 or SC-2) should be beneﬁcial (Choi and Ohmi 2001). However, a silicon surface that was exposed to HF is highly reactive and imme- diately attracts particles and organic contaminants from solutions, DI water, and the ambient air. Already in 1989 Morita et al. reported on the contamination of SC-1/SC-2 cleaned wafers by adsorption of ions such as Na+, K+, Al3+, Cr3+, Fe3+, Ni2+, and Cu2+ from solutions, showing that the absence or presence of a SiO2 layer on the silicon surface strongly affects adsorption (Morita 1989). Desorption of Al3+ and Fe3+ was most effective with HF-H2O and that of Cu2+ and Cr3+ with SC-2 (Kern 1990). There are some further options to modify and to improve the RCA cleaning process in order to reduce the process costs at high level of wafer cleanliness:  Alternative implementation of centrifugal spray processing and stationary closed system processing (Reinhardt and Kern 2008)  Reduction of the NH3(aq) concentration in SC-1 by a factor of 210 (Reinhardt and Kern 2008)  Replacement of the volatile NH3(aq) by KOH and dilution (Buchholz 2015) 332 A. Stapf et al.  Addition of complexing agents and surfactants to SC-1 (APM) to enhance metal removal (Doll et al. 2004; Martin et al. 1999)  Dilution of SC-1 and SC-2 with DI water (Reinhardt and Kern 2008)  Replacement of SC-2 with very dilute HCl at room temperature (Reinhardt and Kern 2008) Alternative Cleaning Sequences: Ozone, Ohmi-Clean, and IMEC-Clean Currently, several additional solutions for wet-chemical cleaning and surface condi- tioning are available for use in conjunction with or as a replacement of RCA standard cleaning. As mentioned already above, HF processing is used to remove potentially metal contamination-rich silicon oxide layers and to create a hydrogen-passivated hydro- phobic silicon surface. Instead of such wet processing, the silicon wafers might be exposed to HF-IPA vapor (Reinhardt and Kern 2008). So-called dilute chemistry concepts have been realized in some cases: In order to optimize speciﬁc process steps, dilution of cleaning solutions to various concentrations has been established. Currently, ozonized solutions are also an important part of the cleaning chemistry, because they support a low cost of ownership. The reactions involved in the removal of organics in O3/H2O and oxide formation have been investigated (Reinhardt and Kern 2008). The H2O/O3 solution can be combined with H2SO4 to the so-called SOM (sulfuric acid ozone mixture) mixture for applying also centrifugal spraying. The oxidation-reduction potential of ozone is 2.07 V, whereas for H2O2 it is only 1.78 V. Ozone added to dHF mixtures yield organic removal comparable to SPM and metal removal comparable to SC-2 (HPM). Bergman and Lagrange suggest an O3-dHF clean that can replace the four-chem clean consisting of SPM, dHF, SC-1 (APM), and SC-2 (HPM) (Bergman and Lagrange 2001). Similar results were published by Gottschalk and Schweckendiek (Gottschalk and Schweckendiek 2004). Another part of the cleaning process where the O3 application is helpful are the re-oxidation processes at the end of the wafer cleaning. There are different ways to apply O3 in cleaning processes like bubbling O3 through the mixtures (e.g., micro- bubbles), implementation of a moist O3 gas phase, or using spray cleaning processes (Claes et al. 2001). Cleaning/conditioning operations with O3 include reduction of chemical usage, improved cleaning performance, and lowered processing costs (use of O3 is cheaper than the use of H2O2). Furthermore, ozonized mixtures do not tend to decompose spontaneously, especially at higher metal concentrations or metal contacts like H2O2 does (e.g., catalytic decomposition of H2O2 at Fe-contact). Peroxide- and ozone-based chemistries inherently consume more than the 0.1 nm of silicon per clean as deﬁned in the International Technology Roadmap for Semi- conductors ITRS 2.0. In recent years, some new wet-chemical cleaning processes were created. These combine several of the discrete cleaning steps described above. Referring to their 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 333 potential input in relevant cleaning procedures in current production lines of high- efﬁciency solar cells, two alternative cleaning systems are especially interesting: Ohmi clean and IMEC clean. An insight in cleaning processes of silicon PV manufacturing gives the cleaning process at ISC Konstanz e.V. There, silicon wafers for PV application were sufﬁciently cleaned without an alkaline process step (Buchholz 2015). The process chain is inspired by the IMEC clean but varies in process order and process step details, as shown in Fig. 16. Researchers at IMEC in Leuven (Belgium) have performed outstanding contri- butions in progress for developing cleaning technologies to removing metal ions and particles as well as to preparing oxide layers (Reinhardt and Kern 2008). The IMEC core concept is based on a two-step cleaning approach (Meuris et al. 1999). The ﬁrst step consists of a 5 min SOM (sulfuric acid-ozone mixture) treatment at 90 C followed by a quick dump rinse with hot and cold DI water to remove organic and metal contaminants. The second step consists of a RCA-Clean IMEC-Clean Single Tank- Clean (ideal) SPM SOM Multiple Chem. Rinse Rinse HF HF/HCl Rinse Rinse SC 1 Rinse + oxide growth Rinse Rinse SC 2 Marangoni Dry Rinse Dry Ohmi-Clean H2O/O3 HF/H2O2 H2O/O3 Rinse DHF Rinse Dry Dry Rinse ISC-Clean DHCl DHF Rinse SPM Rinse Dry DHF Fig. 16 Cleaning sequences for silicon wafers used in microelectronic and photovoltaic industries (Buchholz 2015; Kern and Puotinen 1970; Meuris et al. 1999; Ohmi 1996). See Table 7 for abbreviations 334 A. Stapf et al. 2 min treatment in dHF (0.5% HF) acidiﬁed with HCl (0.5 mol/L, pH = 0.5) at room temperature. Furthermore, the addition of HCl to dHF mixtures avoids pitting or roughening of the silicon surface caused by the suppressed re-adsorption of metals. The ﬁnal rinse includes ozonized DI water acidiﬁed with HCl to pH = 2 to regrow a well-deﬁned protective chemical oxide. Finally, a Marangoni dry is used at pH = 3. Ohmi-clean systems were developed by Ohmi et al. at Tohoku University in Sendai (Reinhardt and Kern 2008). The Ohmi clean includes the application of dilute chemistry with ozonized ultrahigh-purity water, dHF/H2O2/(optional with surfactant), ozonized ultrahigh-purity water, dHF, and DI water. These components with or without any input of surfactants enable a fast processing at room temper- ature with mega sonic assistance (Ohmi 1996). In mega sonic excited ozonized water hydroxyl radicals (OH) are generated. These improve the removal of organic contamination. Also, one-step cleaning processes exist. Pan et al. suggested to replace the RCA clean by an SC-1 (APM) cleaning with additives of TMAH (tetra- methylammonium hydroxide) and the complexing agent EDTA. This cleaning step takes 3 min at 80 C and gives comparable or better cleaning results than RCA for pre-gate oxide cleaning (Pan et al. 2001). Another interesting method is the - electrolysis-ionized water cleaning, containing ammonium chloride (NH4Cl) introduced by Shiramizu et al. An NH4Cl containing mixture is electro- lyzed. In the anode water section, protons, ozone gas, and ClOx  are generated by electrolysis. The different oxidizing species and the acidic media enable the solution effectively to remove organic and metallic contaminations (Shiramizu et al. 1996). In order to target the creation of novel high-efﬁcient microelectronic devices and solar cells, respectively, miscellaneous cleaning solutions have been designed. In this context, the addition of dilute HCl or HBr to dilute HF can be used to enhance the removal of trace metal deposits and metal ions. The replacement of HCl by HBr in surfactant containing SC-2 cleans results in lower metal surface concentrations (Reinhardt and Kern 2008). Very interesting is also the application of biodegradable chemicals. Treichel et al. found ethylenediamine derivatives with branched structures and carboxylic groups (Fig. 17) to be a universally applicable biodegradable complexing agent as well as surfactants for silicon substrate cleaning in PV (Treichel et al. 2011). Additions of these surfactants to diluted cleaning or rinsing mixtures improve the metal removal efﬁciency, especially in the case of copper (George et al. 2011). The working principle of the complexing agent in SX-ETM is chemically Fig. 17 Ethylenediamine derivates with branched carboxylic groups 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 335 compatible with almost all standard PV processing sequences and chemicals (Reinhardt and Kern 2008). Choline (trimethyl-2-hydroxiethyl ammonium hydroxide, [(H3C)3-NCH2- CH2OH]OH]), as well as tetramethylammonium hydroxide ((H3C)4NOH), can be used beneﬁcially instead of ammonia solution (NH3(aq)) in SC-1 (Reinhardt and Kern 2008). In order to increase the wettability of the wafer surface, surfac- tants are frequently added. Surfactants also aid in the removal of ﬁne particles, can prevent micro-roughness generation of silicon during etching, and improve the overall cleaning efﬁciency (Reinhardt and Kern 2008). Applied surfactants (anionic, cationic, and nonionic) modify the zeta potential and have to be stable in the respective cleaning solution. Their impact in both alkaline and acidic media including SC-1, SC-2, dHF, dHF-H2O2, or dHF-O3 enables minimizing of particle deposition. Driven by cost and environmental aspects the trend goes to biodegrad- able surfactants. Etching Wet-chemical etching steps are an integral part in handling silicon for PV produc- tion. As already shown in section Chemical Properties of Silicon Surfaces, there are two general pathways to dissolve/etch silicon in aqueous media: treatment in acidic hydroﬂuoric acid containing mixtures with oxidizing agents (section Chemical Aspects of Acidic Etching) or in alkaline mixtures containing strong bases MOH (M = K, Na, N(CH3)4) (section Chemical Aspects of Alkaline Etching). The main applications of etching silicon wafer material are the removal of saw damage and the texturization to increase the absorption of light in the silicon solar cell (Fig. 18). Chemical Aspects of Acidic Etching Acidic etching of silicon is attractive for PVapplications because of the wide adjustable reactivity range as well as to generate different morphologies on silicon surfaces. Incident light 100 % Refracted 70 % Reflected 30 % Incident light 100 % Refracted 70 % 30 % Reflected 9 % 21 % Fig. 18 Light absorption on a planar (left) and a textured surface (right) 336 A. Stapf et al. Generally, acidic etching mixtures give rise to isotropic removal  the etching rates toward the different silicon crystal planes are of a comparable magnitude. Thermodynamic considerations give evidence that silicon should be easily oxidized and dissolved in aqueous acidic media (section Chemical Properties of Silicon Sur- faces, Eq. 1). However, the thin oxide layers are very poorly soluble at pH levels  12. Acidic etching mixtures need ﬂuoride ions as silicon complexing agent to dissolve the oxidized silicon atoms (Eq. 12, see also Eq. 2) (Kolasinski 2009). Si surface ð Þ þ n  m ð Þ hVB þ ! Sinþ surface ð Þ þ m e CB n  4, m  n (1) Si4þ surface ð Þ þ 6 HF aq ð Þ ! SiF6 2 aq ð Þ þ 6 Hþ aq ð Þ (12) As shown in Table 3 the Si-F bond is very stable, i.e., the driving force of the chemical reaction between an oxidized silicon atom and the ﬂuoride ion is high. But, despite the pronounced ﬂuorophilicity of silicon in aqueous hydroﬂuoric acid solutions, its rate of dissolution is below 0.001 nm s1 depending on the silicon substrate type and the etching time (Willeke and Kellermann 1996). Suitable oxi- dizing agents added to hydroﬂuoric acid containing solutions give rise to signiﬁ- cantly increased dissolution rates. Electrochemical measurements have shown that adequate oxidizing agents need a redox potential higher than +0.7 V to oxidize silicon surface atoms or to inject electron holes into the silicon valence band (Kolasinski 2010), e.g., HNO3 (Robbins and Schwartz 1959), H2O2 (Gondek et al. 2014), O3 (Gondek et al. 2016), IO3 , Fe3+, Ce4+, VO2 +, (Kolasinski 2010), or NO+ and NO2 + in highly acidic media (Lippold et al. 2014; Patzig-Klein et al. 2010). As veriﬁed by cyclic voltammetry measurements of silicon oxidation in the aqueous hydroﬂuoric acid solutions electrochemical anodic dissolution of silicon gives rise to the formation of porous silicon in the interval +0.3 V to +0.7 V. Above +0.7 V commonly polishing etching takes place (Lehmann 2002). Electroless etching in such solutions involves electrochemical as well as chemical steps (see also Fig. 4). The respective overall process of silicon dissolution may be dominated by one of the two process types signiﬁcantly depending on the oxidizing agent used and the etch bath composition. Figure 19 shows the proposed mechanism of dissolution of silicon in HF-containing mixtures. Aqueous HF-HNO3 Mixtures The most applied acidic silicon etching systems are HF-HNO3-based mixtures. A lot of required conditions for realizing controllable reactivities and generated surface morphologies have been identiﬁed so far. The process can be described by a sequence of electrochemical steps including local anodic and cathodic areas on the silicon surface (Turner 1960). The reduction of HNO3 occurs at cathodic sites generating (electron) holes in the silicon valence band (hVB +, e.g. Eq. 13), which are able to oxidize neighbored silicon surface atoms (anodic sites). These can be dissolved as SiF6 2 (Eq. 14), thereby electrons from the conduction band (eCB ) can be partly consumed by protons generating hydrogen (Eq. 15) (Kooij et al. 1999). In the case of strong oxidizing mixtures containing a 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 337 high concentration of HNO3, an alternative chemical oxidation of the silicon surface atoms can also occur, giving rise to a quick dissolution of the directly oxidized silicon atoms. Any intermediate silicon oxide layers postulated in the past are not detectable. The resulting silicon surface is terminated by Si(H)x bonds (Steinert et al. 2006; Zanoni et al. 1999). HNO3 aq ð Þ þ 3 Hþ aq ð Þ ! NO g=aq ð Þ þ 2 H2O lð Þ þ 3 hVB þ (13) Si surface ð Þ þ 4m ð ÞhVB þ þ6 HF aq ð Þ ! SiF6 2 aq ð Þ þm eCB  þ6 Hþ aq ð Þ m  3 (14) (Kolasinski 2009; Acker et al. 2012) 2 Hþ aq ð Þ þ 2 eCB H2 g ð Þ (15) Fig. 19 Proposed mechanism of electrochemical silicon etching in ﬂuoride-containing solutions as postulated by Kolasinski (2009) 338 A. Stapf et al. As demonstrated in Fig. 20, besides HNO3 further N-species like NO2  and NOx participate in the stepwise oxidation of silicon. Furthermore, this scheme qualita- tively gives insights into the reaction products of subsequent steps of NO3 -reduc- tion observed in practice. Intermediate products formed by the chemical reduction of the nitric acid act as promoters/catalysts, e.g., NO2 . This was proven by the addition of NaNO2 to aqueous HF-HNO3 solutions resulting in enhanced chemical reactivity and shortened induction periods (Robbins and Schwartz 1959). Induction periods are characteristic in the case of applying diluted HF-HNO3 mixtures. This indicates that HNO3 as well as NO3  are not the dominant oxidizing species in HF-HNO3 mixtures. Adsorbed NO2 (Robbins and Schwartz 1960) and different N (III)-species (NO2 , NO+, N2O3, N4O6 2+ (Kelly et al. 1994; Steinert et al. 2006, 2007)) accelerate the silicon oxidation. Recent literature highlights the importance of N(III)-species during the oxidation of silicon. The occurrence of the respective redox steps depends signiﬁcantly on the respective concentration ratio in the applied HF-HNO3-H2O mixtures. In concentrated HF-HNO3 mixtures containing HNO3 concentrations below 3.8 mol L1 (c(HF)  16.6 mol L1), the generation of holes (hVB +) determines the rate of silicon dissolution. In the case of an HNO3 concentration higher than 3.8 mol L1 (c(HF)  16.6 mol L1), the diffusion of complexing ﬂuoride species (HF2 , HF, F) to the silicon surface is the rate limiting step. Depending on the HNO3 concentration and the bath temper- ature, different amounts of reaction products are formed, displayed in Fig. 21 for concentrated HF-HNO3 mixtures. As mentioned above molecular hydrogen (H2) can also be generated during silicon dissolution, besides above mentioned N-species. The percentage of formed H2 correlates with the HF:HNO3 ratio: it increases with higher HF concentration in the mixture (Fig. 21) because of decreasing fractions of alternative oxidizing agents (Acker et al. 2012; Hoffmann et al. 2011). The different chemical reactivities of HF-HNO3 mixtures toward silicon depending on their concentration enables the control of resulting silicon surface HNO3 NO2/N2O4 HNO2 NO HNO/NO + V + IV + III + II + I  I  III NH4 H3NOH+ N2O3 + H2O N2O N2  0 e e e e 2 e (+ 1,35 V) ( 1,87 V) (+ 0,28 V) (+ 1,77 V) 2 e (+ 0,71 V) (+ 1,59 V) (+ 0,99 V) (+ 1,07 V) (+ 0,80 V) (+ 0,94 V) Fig. 20 Stepwise reduction pathways and redox potentials of N-species in aqueous HF-HNO3 mixtures during oxidation of silicon; N-species detected in etching solutions are blue framed; NH4 + is stable only at low temperatures (8 C) in these mixtures 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 339 morphologies. First systematic reactivity studies on n-type silicon performed by Robbins and Schwartz indicate reactivity proﬁles with etching rates up to 27,500 nm s1 for concentrated HF-HNO3 mixtures (65% HF (49%) : 35% HNO3 (69%), c(HF) = 18.4 mol L1, c(HNO3) = 5.4 mol L1). Etching rate measurements on p-type silicon material provide comparable results (Fig. 22) (Röver et al. 2004). Relating to the dissolution of silicon, as shown above, the reactivity pattern is also characterized by two distinctly different areas in the HF/HNO3/H2O ternary diagram in Fig. 22. In the case of high HNO3 concentrations, the process rate is limited by the 0 0,2 0,4 0,6 0,8 1 1,2 1,4 10 20 30 40 50 60 mol / mol (Si) HNO3 concentration in vol% NO3--consumption NH4 +-formation N(III)-species-formation H2-formation non-detectedN-species Fig. 21 Stoichiometric HNO3 consumption, N(III)-, NH4 +-, and H2-formation during etching silicon in concentrated aqueous HF-HNO3 mixtures with different HF:HNO3 ratios 75 % 5 4 3 2 6 1 50 % 25 % HNO3 (65%) 25 % H2O 50 % 75 % 25 % 10 r [nm s-1] 20 50 100 200 300 500 1000 2000 3000 above 50 % 75 % HF (40 %) Fig. 22 Reactivity studies of HF-HNO3-H2O solutions and generated silicon surface morphologies, SEM images see Fig. 23 340 A. Stapf et al. HF concentration, but at high HF concentrations, the concentration of HNO3 is rate limiting. Diluting the mixtures with water gives rise to a signiﬁcant reactivity decrease by orders of magnitude (Fig. 22). Isotropic silicon etching was found for all aqueous HF-HNO3 mixtures, which means there are no prominent differences between the dissolution rates of the silicon atoms in the (100), (110), and (111) surface orientations. Etching rate measurements as a function of the temperature yielded low apparent activation energies around 16 kJ mol1 in the case of HNO3-rich mixtures, but activation energy values above 42 kJ mol1 were reported for HF-rich mixtures. In HNO3-rich mixtures, the dissolution process of silicon is limited by some diffusion steps, most likely by diffusion of HF or HF2  species to the silicon surface. On the other hand, in HF-rich mixtures, the oxidation of silicon surface atoms and the injection of holes, respectively, are rate-determining for the overall process (Schwartz and Robbins 1961). The distinctly different kinds of rate-controlling steps give rise to a diversity of generated surface morphologies/etch ﬁgures in accordance with the reactivity pattern of the mixture (Fig. 22). Diffusion-controlled silicon dissolution in HNO3- rich mixtures leads to surface polishing. The lower redox potential in HF-rich mixtures favors the formation of etching pits enabling texturization of silicon surfaces. Surface defects act as a source for enhanced etching reactions resulting in circular pits (Röver et al. 2004; Schwartz and Robbins 1976). There are various in-between state structures, in diluted mixtures as well as in mixtures with very low portions of HNO3, and a high percentage of HF leading to the formation of porous layers  also called stain etching (Vázsonyi et al. 2001). Fig. 23 SEM images of generated silicon surface morphologies. Numbers refer to the ones in Figs. 22 and 24 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 341 The Development of Acidic Etching Mixtures NaNO2 additives are sometimes used for bath activation at the beginning of the etching procedure (Robbins and Schwartz 1959). In order to control and adjust the reactivity and the resulting surface texture, different percentages of acetic acid (CH3COOH) (Robbins and Schwartz 1960), sulfuric acid (H2SO4) (Lippold et al. 2011), and phosphoric acid (H3PO4) (Nishimoto et al. 1999) can be added. Dilution of the etching mixture with these acids instead of water results in higher reactivity in comparison with HF-HNO3-H2O mixtures (Fig. 24). Such effects are due to the higher redox potentials in these mixtures and thus lead to enhanced silicon oxidation. The impact of sulfuric acid furthermore enables the creation of new surface structures exhibiting lower light reﬂection (Fig. 25) (Lippold et al. 2014). Current investigations to replace HNO3  because of waste management aspects  lead to aqueous HF-HCl-based and chlorine containing mixtures for silicon etching. These solutions surprisingly exhibit anisotropic silicon dissolution and surface polishing depending on the concentration areas. Using stirred HF-HCl-H2O2 or HF-HCl-Cl2 mixtures for the treatment of monocrystalline silicon wafers, random inverted pyramidal structures are generated without masking or lithographic pro- cesses (Stapf et al. 2016, 2017). Silicon etching rates of up to 0.8 μm min1 for monocrystalline, diamond wire-sawn wafers are reached at room temperature. SEM pictures show pyramid edge widths between 2 and 20 μm (Fig. 26). An additional nano-texture is observed on the surface of the inverted pyramids microstructure. Fig. 24 Generated surface morphologies of HF-HNO3-CH3COOH mixtures at 25 C; see SEM images in Fig. 23 342 A. Stapf et al. Fig. 25 Reactivities toward p-type multicrystalline silicon surfaces (left, (Lippold et al. 2011)) and generated surface morphologies (right (SEM images) (Lippold 2014)) 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 343 Cl2 is a strongly oxidizing agent (E0 = 1.36 V), (Holleman et al. 2007), which is dissolved during bubbling or formed by the oxidation of chloride ions by H2O2 (Eq. 17). Chlorine reforms chloride ions upon oxidation of silicon surface atoms according to Eq. 18. The hydroﬂuoric acid causes the coordination and dissolu- tion of the oxidized silicon species via Eq. 19. However, not every strong oxidizing agent leads to sufﬁciently fast silicon etching as shown, e.g., for hydrogen peroxide and ozone based mixtures (Gondek et al. 2014; Gondek et al. 2016). H2O2 þ 2 Cl þ 2 Hþ ! 2 H2O þ Cl2 (16) Si þ 2 Cl2 ! Si4þ þ 4 Cl (17) Si4þ þ 6 F ! SiF2 6 (18) Texturization of Multicrystalline Wafers As shown in section Etching Rate, acidic etching is principally an isotropic process. The etch rate does not depend on the crystal lattice plane orientation. Therefore, HF-HNO3-H2O-mixtures are normally used for saw damage removal and can also be applied for texturing of multicrystalline silicon wafers. For the acidic texturing process, generally, inline equipment is used. The wafers are moved horizontally on rolls through tanks, with an etching time of around 2 minutes per wafer. The solar cell efﬁciency depends strongly on the etching depth of the acidic texture. If the etching depth is too low, crystal defects remain and the open-circuit voltage, as well as the short-circuit current, are reduced. If the etching depth is too large, the surface roughness and therefore the surface recombination of the charge carriers (e/h+) Fig. 26 SEM pictures of the random inverted structure generated on (100) silicon surface by HF-HCl-Cl2 treatment 344 A. Stapf et al. increases. Depending on the saw type, diamond wire, or SiC-slurry, the saw damage has a different depth, around 5 μm or 10 μm, respectively (Chap. 11, Wafer Processing). Therefore, the etching depth also depends on the wafer material used, as the saw damage should be removed completely. Impact of Saw Damage (SiC-Slurry Versus DW) The different wafer-sawing processes, diamond wire sawing and SiC-slurry saw- ing, cause an as-cut surface morphology that strongly inﬂuences etching processes (Meinel et al. 2014). This saw damage controls the sites where chemical attack preferentially occurs. Furthermore, it controls the morphology of the etched surface and the rate at which this morphology is formed (Fig. 27). The diamond wire-sawn wafers feature a surface with a superﬁcial damage layer. Their etching leads to an easy ﬂattening of the existing rifts and cracks. Only a small surface enlargement and a fast increase of the reﬂection values with rising thickness loss of the wafers occur. In contradiction, the SiC-slurry-sawn wafers feature a more distinct damage layer on the surface and micro-cracks in the subsurface region. The exposure of such cracks is achieved in short etch times, leading to a remarkable surface enlargement and low reﬂection values. The existence of such distinct subsurface damage is beneﬁcial to the reﬂection properties of the etched slurry-sawn wafers. The speciﬁc features of the surface damage introduced Fig. 27 SEM images of SiC-slurry (left) and diamond wire-sawn (right) multicrystalline silicon wafer surfaces before (top) and after etching (bottom) in HF-HNO3 etching mixtures 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 345 initially by the wafer-sawing process cannot be changed in the etching process. Variations of the acidic mixture do not inﬂuence the texturization process of the DW wafers at all. Further adjustments to the DW-sawing process as well as to the texturing mixtures are necessary to create homogeneously texturized DW-sawn wafers of low reﬂectivity. Additional development of acidic mixtures with new etchants (change of acidic-mixture composition or introducing additives) and different etch conditions (change of the etch regime, temperature, or etch time) are reasonable. Chemical Aspects of Alkaline Etching The fundamental chemical reactions describing alkaline etching and dissolution of silica and silicon have been already presented in section Dissolution of Silicon. The overall process of silicon dissolution in aqueous alkaline mixtures is strongly exothermic with a reaction enthalpy of about 340 kJ/mol. Hydrogen and silica are formed as described by Eq. 3. Silica itself is also dissolved giving rise to various silicate ions depending on the pH (Eqs. 6, 7 and 8). The thermodynamic driving force indicated by the standard redox potential Eo is signiﬁcantly higher at pH 14 than in acidic solutions at pH 0 with values of 1.697 V and 1.24 V, respec- tively (Eqs. 9 and 10). Generally, only monocrystalline silicon wafers are treated with alkaline etching solutions in order to utilize the observed anisotropic silicon dissolution in the adjusted concentration areas (see also section Isotropic and Anisotropic Behavior). The substrates crystal lattice has to be oriented in (100) direction, because only on such a surface type pyramidal textures  with preferred reﬂectivity features  can be achieved. All other orientations such as (110) or (111) have no application in industrial solar cell processing. Multicrystalline wafers are also not textured with alkaline mixtures for the same reason. Alkaline etching in PV processing is currently used for saw damage removal and texturing. Depending on the sawing type, the thickness of the silicon layer which should be removed is different. For diamond wire sawing surface damage is about 5 micrometers deep, while for SiC slurry sawing damages like micro-cracks and dislocations are up to 10 micrometers deep (Möller 2004) (Chap. 11, Wafer Processing). The etching parameters such as concentrations of components in the etching mixture, temperature, and etching time determine the quality of the texture. Experiments and simulations comparing different textures indicated that randomized upright pyramids with an average edge length of 6 micrometers are best for an optimized solar cell performance. A simpliﬁed chemical equation which describes the overall silicon dissolution reaction can be written as follows: Si þ 2 H2O þ 2 OH ! HO ð Þ2Si O ð Þ2  2 þ 2 H2 (19) 346 A. Stapf et al. For each mole of dissolved silicon two moles of hydrogen are formed. The oxidation state of the silicon atoms changes from zero to plus four. The oxidizing species are the hydrogen atoms exhibiting a positive partial charge in the H-O-bonds in H2O-molecules and OH-ions. Due to the relatively high pH of the alkaline etching solution, it is correct to state that twofold deprotonated silicic acid [(HO)2Si(O)2]2 is formed. However, depending on the concentration of the silicate ions various reactions between these species can follow. Upon condensation between the monomeric silicate ions [(HO)4nSi(O)n]n dimers, trimers, and larger oligomers are generated, which consist of corner-sharing SiO4-tetrahedra: 2 HO ð Þ2Si O ð Þ2  2 ! HO O ð Þ2Si-O-Si O ð Þ2OH  4 þ H2O (20) In many publications, all these silicate species are summarized as SiO3 2 or even SiO2 ignoring the OH groups and the speciﬁc charge of the anions (see, e.g., Eqs. 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9). Depending on their concentration and other parameters (pH, temperature, stirring, additives) mixtures of larger macromolecular species can be formed and the solubility limit exceeded. This can cause the formation of white silica and/or silicate precipitates, which are deposited on the wafer surface or as particles in the solution. Equation 20 does not provide signiﬁcant information about the pathway of the reaction, i.e., the reaction mechanism(s) with the most important reaction steps and the rate determining reaction barrier. Besides, the nature and bonding situation of the involved Si atoms at the surface is not considered by Eq. 20. It is well known that all silicon surfaces  no matter which crystal orientation is present  are terminated with Si-H moieties during and after the etching process. None or only very few Si-OH and/or Si-O-Si groups have been detected on the wafer surfaces. A chemical surface reaction model which explains this observation is depicted in Fig. 28. Both water molecules as well as OH-ions are involved in oxidizing and attacking of surface silicon atoms. It has been shown by isotopic studies using deuterated water and hydroxides in anisotropic etching of Si(100) as well as in other kinetic studies that the cleavage of the Si-H bonds represents the rate determining step (Baum and Schiffrin 1998). All other reaction steps including the attack of the Si-Si back bonds and the complete coordination of the surface silicon atoms with four oxygen atoms (or OH groups) are faster. Thus, when the surface Si-H group is replaced by a Si-OH unit a sequence of several fast chemical reaction steps follows leading to the overall result as summa- rized in Eq. 21. This explains the observed Si-H termination.  Si ð Þ3  Si-OH þ 3 H2O ! 3  Si-H ð Þ þ Si OH ð Þ4 (21) Several groups have investigated the concentration and temperature dependence of etch rates for alkaline silicon etching solutions. These studies are on the one hand generally useful for the understanding of reaction mechanisms. On the other hand, 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 347 they are important for the processing times required for alkaline etching steps in the industry. Especially for saw damage etching high etch rates are required and therefore relatively concentrated KOH or NaOH solutions are used. In general, Arrhenius behavior is observed and the following rate law (Eq. 22) and kinetic parameters have been derived (Gosálvez et al. 2010; Seidel et al. 1990): r ¼ k H2O ½ 4 OH ½ 1=4 ¼ k H2O ½ 4 MOH ½ 1=4 ¼ k Ea kBT 0 H2O ½ 4 MOH ½ 1=4 (22) (with r = reaction rate, k = rate constant, M = Na or K, k0 = rate constant under standard conditions, Ea = activation energy, kB = Boltzmann number = 8.617 105 eV/K, T = absolute temperature) Thus, for a given surface orientation and a ﬁxed OH concentration, experimental data for different temperatures can be plotted linearly with log r as a function of 1/T according to Eq. 23: log r ¼ log k0 0  Ea=kBT (23) This allows the determination of the corresponding apparent activation energy Ea and an apparent rate constant k0 assuming constant concentrations of water and OH (k0 = k0[H2O]4[MOH]1/4). From these values or from the linear Arrhenius plot the reaction rate can be calculated. This has been done usually at temperatures in a range from 20 C to 90 C. Experimental data correspond quite well with this linear behavior, especially if relatively concentrated solutions are considered. Fig. 28 Reaction scheme proposed for the chemical dissolution of (100) silicon surfaces in alkaline solutions, adapted from Lehmann (2002) 348 A. Stapf et al. For the (100) orientation as the most relevant silicon surface for PV processing the following data are found: k0 = 2480 μm/h(mol/l)4.25, and Ea = 0.595 eV (57.41 kJ/mol) (Gosálvez et al. 2010). Many further data on tabulated etch rates can be found in the tables (Hull 1999) as already mentioned above (section Isotropic and Anisotropic Behavior). Activation energies of 0.6 eV (57.6 kJ/mol) indicate a reaction controlled mode for the alkaline etching process (section Dissolution of Silicon). This corresponds to the formation of texture and the typical anisotropy, although polishing etch regimes, which are most likely induced by diffusion-control, are also encountered (see below). The concentration dependence of reaction rates in alkaline etching as described by Eq. 22 is remarkable. The equation shows a very strong inﬂuence of the concentration of water, as it is represented in this equation to the power of four. Much less inﬂuence has the concentration of the OH-ions, which of course correlates with the pH value of the solution. A detailed model for the reaction mechanism that explains the rate law expressed by Eq. 23, the Si-H terminated silicon surface, and the anisotropy in the case of more diluted solutions is not known (section Isotropic and Anisotropic Behavior and below). Besides, the etch process may not only be explained as a local molecular mechanism at a certain surface site but by an electrochemical model. The fact that for alkaline etching it is known that high p-doping levels with boron atom concentrations of 10191020 cm3 result in a so-called etch stop with strongly decreased etch rates supports the electrochemical description since this observation can only be explained by conduction and valence band bending and changes in the surface space-charge region. Neglecting the change of water content with increasing OH-ion concentration one would expect a slow but continuous increase of etch rates with increasing pH (r  [MOH]1/4). However, in most cases, maximum etch rate occurs between 20 and 40 wt% of MOH in the solution, with signiﬁcantly lower etch rates below 20 and above 40 wt% (Fig. 29). This is due to an overall decreasing water content, not only caused by the replacement of water molecules by MOH but also by the fact that the dissolved anions and cations are solvated, making the water molecules less available for the attack of the silicon surface. Aqueous KOH-IPA Mixtures Due to their cost, potassium and sodium hydroxide are the most commonly used bases for alkaline etching and texturization of monocrystalline silicon wafers. The solutions are typically modiﬁed with different additives, especially surfac- tants and alcohols in order to improve the etching results. The most frequently used and therefore the most thoroughly investigated additive is isopropyl alcohol (IPA). IPA as well as many other hydroxyl compounds are surface- and tensioactive compounds, causing a decrease of surface tension for both the solid-liquid and the vapor-solid interfaces. Therefore, IPA and related compounds improve the wettability of silicon surfaces. Both, hydrophilic and hydrophobic areas are easily bedewed. In addition, diffusion of reactants and products into as well as away from the interface layer should be enhanced, most likely due to a reduction of the thickness of the Nernsts diffusion layer, which is known to have 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 349 a thickness of up to 1 μm. Besides, the morphology of the surfaces is usually improved upon IPA addition. The latter effect has been attributed to a preferred adsorption (and in turn blocking) of OH-terminated surface silicon atoms located at step monomer sites (Gosálvez et al. 2010). Besides, the surface activity of IPA reduced the lifetime and size of the H2 bubbles, which also results in improved surface morphologies. Generally, IPA addition reduces the overall etch rate, especially for high KOH concentrations. For (100) surfaces the roughness, i.e., the tendency to form homogeneously distributed pyramids, is improved (Fig. 30). This effect is especially pronounced at IPA concentrations signiﬁcantly below 10%, e.g., at 24%. Alternative Additives When using KOH-IPA mixtures, IPA has to be redosed frequently in a high amount because it easily evaporates during the process. IPA is highly ﬂammable, toxic to human beings upon longer exposure, and its waste, as well as the exhausted vapor, requires special treatments. Therefore, alternative additives are investigated. The currently most promising additives are polysaccharides such as 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 0 10 20 30 40 50 Normalized Etch rate KOH (wt%) (110) (100) 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 0 10 20 30 40 50 Normalized Etch rate NaOH (wt%) (110) (100) 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 0 5 10 15 20 25 Normalized Etch rate TMAH (wt%) (110) (100) Fig. 29 Normalized etch rates of (100) and (110) silicon crystal orientation depending on the MOH concentration, adapted from Gosálvez et al. (2010), normalized to highest etch rate observed 350 A. Stapf et al. starch, pectin, dextrin (and derivates thereof), as well as diols, triols, and poly- alcohols such as glycols or polyvinyl alcohol (PVA). These additives have a higher boiling point than IPA and therefore do not evaporate at process temper- atures of 80 C. Many of them generate the same texture quality during the etching processes compared to IPA containing mixtures, but sometimes at lower temper- atures or during shorter etching times. However, for simple monoalcohols such as propanols, butanols, or pentanols it was found that longer and bulkier organic substituents reduce the etch rates, with the strongest effect reported for tert- butanol (Gosálvez et al. 2010; Zubel and Kramkowska 2002). Besides, the larger the organic part of the additive, the larger the reduction of surface tension and the lower the solubility in the aqueous alkaline solutions. Further disadvantages of these alternative additives can include higher costs and additional cleaning steps required to remove the low-volatile and strongly adsorbed hydroxyl compounds from the silicon surface. Texturization of Monocrystalline Wafers A solution of NaOH or KOH and IPA in water is generally used for alkaline saw damage removal and texturization on monocrystalline silicon wafers. As shown above and in section Isotropic and Anisotropic Behavior, alkaline etching has different etch rates for different crystal lattice plane orientations of the silicon atoms. This anisotropy results in a pyramidal structure on the wafer surface for monocrystalline silicon wafers with a (100) surface orientation. Applying this texture, the light absorption of the silicon wafer can be highly increased. Using an aqueous etching solution of KOH and IPA, a texturing time of about 20 min at about 7080 C is required to remove the saw damage and to generate the texture. Typical concentrations of the solutions are 2 wt.% KOH and 4 wt.% IPA. A structure of random pyramids is generated on the silicon wafer surface (Fig. 31). The edge length of the pyramids has varying dimensions of 17 μm. This procedure is performed in batch processes, wherein the wafers are held in carriers 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 0 10 20 30 40 50 Normalized Etch rate KOH-IPA (wt%) (110) (100) 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 0 10 20 30 40 50 Normalized Etch rate KOH-pentanediol (wt%) (110) (100) Fig. 30 Normalized etch rates of (100) and (110) crystal orientation depending on the KOH concentration saturated with various additives, adapted from Gosálvez et al. (2010), normalized to highest etch rate observed 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 351 that allow chemicals to wet the entire surface. These carriers are moved into tanks ﬁlled with the respective chemicals for etching, cleaning, rinsing, and drying. For process control, the loaded carriers are weighed before and after etching to determine the etching depth from the difference in weight. Control over the size and number of pyramids formed during alkaline etching has been gained empirically. It is still not known what source causes the formation of each pyramid tip during the etching process. At least four different pyramid- initiators have been considered in the literature: 1. Crystal defects including contaminations (such as heteroatoms) 2. Reactions products (silicate/SiO2 precipitates) 3. H2 bubbles (at the silicon surface) 4. Adsorbed additives (IPA, etc.) None of these potential initiators for pyramids is fully consistent with the experimental observations: Regarding no. 1 it was found that the number of gener- ated pyramids does not show a clear correlation with the defect concentration present in the wafer material. For clean, saw-damage etched, and correspondingly pretreated Cz-wafers, there are more pyramids formed than would be expected from the number of defects. Considering no. 2 it is indeed observed that there are usually more pyramids initiated if the concentration of dissolved silicon in the etching solution is increased. However, pyramids are also formed when fresh solutions are used which do not contain any silicon. Hydrogen bubbles (no. 3) are indeed formed directly on the silicon surface. They stick to the surface until a certain size is reached, but their size is usually much larger than the observed size of the pyramids or the pyramid tips and it is not known if the number of (micro)bubbles correlates with the number of pyramids. The additives which are used, especially IPA and many other hydroxyl compounds, are known to adsorb at the silicon surface changing the surface energy and related surface properties including chemical reaction behavior. However, neither the size nor the concentration of the additive molecules does show a clear and unambiguous correlation with the pyramid formation. Fig. 31 Typical structure of a monocrystalline silicon wafer surface texturized by KOH-IPA solutions 352 A. Stapf et al. Nevertheless, with the random inverted pyramid textures completely covering the silicon surface with pyramids of a typical edge length of 6 μm are generated very reliably, if the above mentioned KOH/IPA-concentrations are applied. The result is a mean weighted reﬂectivity Rw of 1112.5%, which is signiﬁcantly lower than the Rw values which can be obtained by isotropic textures. Only lithographically generated textures (e.g., inverted pyramids) and similar texturing approaches requiring masking and/or laser structuring allow generating signiﬁcantly lower reﬂectivity values. Inverted Pyramids To further improve the light absorption of the texture, inverted pyramids can be generated on the silicon wafer surface as shown in Fig. 32 (Goetzberger et al. 1997). An etch mask containing SiO2 or SiNx is deposited on the silicon wafer surface via thermal oxidation or PECVD. A photoresist is deposited on this layer through spin coating. The photoresist is dried and lithographically structured in regular distances with an accuracy of 1 μm. The exposed areas are dissolved. After the SiO2 is etched, the remaining photoresist will be removed. The silicon wafer with the etch mask is now etched in a KOH-IPA mixture. Because of the anisotropy effect the etch mask is not underetched, and so inverted pyramids are generated. After the etch process, the remaining etch mask is removed. As this process is highly time-consuming and expensive it is mainly used in the production of so-called high-efﬁciency solar cells. A new concept for the maskless generation of inverted pyramids (random inverted pyramids, Fig. 26) is the usage of acidic texturing mixtures containing hydroﬂuoric acid, hydrochloric acid, and chlo- rine (see section The Development of Acidic Etching Mixtures). Concluding Remarks/Summary The preparation of silicon wafers for solar cell manufacturing includes cleaning, etching, and texturization steps (Figs. 33 and 34). Wet chemical cleaning steps are required to obtain good cell performances. This aim is independent of the wafer type Fig. 32 Structure of inverted pyramids on a monocrystalline silicon wafer surface texturized by KOH-IPA solutions after photolithographic treatment 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 353 (mono- or multicrystalline, p- or n-doped) and also the type of sawing process (SiC slurry or diamond wire). Standard cleaning solutions developed for microelectronic processing such as so-called RCA, Piranha, or IMEC can be applied for the as-cut wafer before saw damage removal and texturing are performed (Fig. 33). In order to Silicon Wafer Saw Damage Removal and Texturing Cleaning Diffusion (high-temperature step) Further Processing Pre-Cleaning Solar Cell Optional Pre-Cleaning RCA: SC-1 removal of slurry residues (organics) RCA: SC-2 removal of metal atoms (Cu) and SiOx-surface conditioning Standard Cleaning RCA: SC-1 removal of organic residues Piranha removal of organics and metal ions HF-Dip SiOx removal RCA: SC-2 + ozone removal of metal atoms (Cu) and SiOx-surface conditioning Alternative Sequences RCA: SC-1 + metal complexing agent RCA: SC-2 + HCl/HBr + metal complexing agent Fig. 33 Scheme of important cleaning procedures of silicon wafers in solar cell processing Silicon Wafer Cleaning Diffusion (high-temperature step) Further Processing Pre-Cleaning Solar Cell Monocrystalline Wafer Saw Damage Etch fast removal of saw damage HF-HNO3-H2O or KOH-IPA Texturing KOH-IPA, TMAH, EDP Alternative Additives Ethylene glycol, Starch, Cellulose, Pectin Multicrystalline Wafer Saw Damage Removal and Texturing HF-HNO3-H2O Possible Additives CH3COOH, H2SO4, H3PO4, NH3 Surfactants Saw Damage Removal and Texturing Fig. 34 Scheme of texturing procedures in solar cell processing 354 A. Stapf et al. save cost and processing time and due to the less demanding requirements in PV compared to microelectronics, simpliﬁed alternative cleaning sequences may be used. Further cleaning steps are required before high-temperature processing steps such as emitter diffusion. Porous silicon and metal contaminations have to be removed. Silicon oxide layers are generated to protect the silicon from contamina- tion and for surface passivation. Referring to the speciﬁc factors contributing to the costs of the cleaning process (chemical consumption, the number of cleaning steps, tool price, throughput), cell makers have to ﬁnd out what is just clean enough for solar cell manufacturing and how to reach this level. Useful information to clear this question was published by Wostyn et al. (2012). The authors presented a model that can be used to compare the efﬁciency of different cleaning mixtures. The input needed in the model is the amount of contamination to be removed and the target cleanliness level after cleaning. After the pre-cleaning step described in section Cleaning of Silicon Surfaces, there are still small cracks penetrating around 510 μm deep into the wafer surface. Such saw damage should be removed from the wafer surface because it reduces the mechanical strength of the wafer and increases charge carrier recom- bination in the surface region. Alkaline as well as acidic solutions can be employed alternatively for saw damage removal (Fig. 34). Additionally, the etching processes are normally used to generate surface textures in order to reduce the total light reﬂection of the wafer (Fig. 18). Depending on the used silicon wafer material, different process steps are necessary. Due to the different crystallite orientations in multicrystalline wafers, isotropic etching has to be used. The standard solutions are based on HF-HNO3-mixtures, with optional additives to improve the isotropic texture. In case of monocrystalline (100) oriented wafers, anisotropic texturing is applied yielding pyramid structures. Established standard systems are alkaline solutions, in particular, aqueous KOH-IPA, which generally is used at around 80 C. KOH may be replaced by other strong bases, but NaOH is the only competitive base when cost factors are taken into account. More efforts have been taken in order to replace IPA by less volatile and potentially better and cheaper additives. In general, the aims with regard to wet chemical processing steps for silicon wafer preparation in PV industry are focused on further decrease of contamination and defect levels. Thus, processing might become more and more similar to the micro- electronic industries. This is motivated by the general target to improve the efﬁ- ciency of the solar cells. On the other hand, costs need to be decreased to stay competitive with other (PV-) technologies. It is obvious that cleaning, etching, and texturization have an impact on all aspects to be considered for any future development, including cell, module and system efﬁciency, yield of the production process, ﬁxed costs, variable costs, and the lifetime of the system. Models for taking these factors into account have been described (e.g., Neuhaus and Münzer 2007). 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 355 Cross-References Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon Wafer Processing References J. Acker, A. Rietig, M. Steinert, V. Hoffmann, J. Phys. Chem. C 116, 20380 (2012) P. Allongue, V. Costa Kieling, H. Gerischer, J. Electrochem. Soc. 140, 1018 (1993) O.J. Anttila, M.V. Tilli, M. Schaekers, C.L. Claeys, J. Electrochem. Soc. 139, 1180 (1992) P.W. Atkins, J. de Paula, Physical Chemistry, 9th edn. (Oxford University Press, Oxford/New York, 2010) T. Baum, D.J. Schiffrin, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 94, 691 (1998) E. J. Bergman, S. Lagrange, M. Claes, S. de Gendt, E. Röhr, Solid State Phenom. 7677, 85 (2001) F. Buchholz, Metal Surface Contamination in c-Si Solar Cell Processing (Dissertation, TU Bergakademie Freiberg, 2015). S.A. Campbell, D.J. Schiffrin, P.J. Tufton, J. Electroanal. Chem. 344, 211 (1993) G.F. Cerofolini, A. Giussani, A. Modelli, D. Mascolo, D. Ruggiero, D. Narducci, E. Romano, Appl. Surf. Sci. 254, 5781 (2008) Y.J. Chabal, A.L. Harris, K. Raghavachari, J.C. Tully, Int. J. Mod. Phys. B 07, 1031 (1993) G.-M. Choi, T. Ohmi, J. Electrochem. Soc. 148, G241G248 (2001) M. Claes, E. Röhr, T. Conard, F. de Smedt, S. de Gendt, W. Storm, T. Bauer, P.W. Mertens, M.M. Heyns, Solid State Phenom. 7677, 67 (2001) O. Doll, S. Metzger, B.O. Kolbesen, Freiberg. Forschungsh. B 153 (2004) M. George, H. Treichel, D. Bohling, A. Goldstein, H. Litvak, S. Ostrowski, I. Mowat, W. Kern, ECS Trans. 41, 295 (2011) H. Gerischer, P. Allongue, V. Costa Kieling, Ber. Bunsen-Ges. 97, 753 (1993) O.J. Glembocki, R.E. Stahlbush, M. Tomkiewicz, J. Electrochem. Soc. 132, 145 (1985) A. Goetzberger, J. Knobloch, B. Voß, Sonnenenergie: Photovoltaik: Physik und Technologie der Solarzelle (Teubner, Stuttgart, 1997) C. Gondek, M. Lippold, I. Röver, K. Bohmhammel, E. Kroke, J. Phys. Chem. C 118, 2044 (2014) C. Gondek, R. Hanich, F. Honeit, A. Lißner, A. Stapf, E. Kroke, J. Phys. Chem. C 120, 22349 (2016) C. Gottschalk, J. Schweckendiek, Micro 22, 81 (2004) M.A. Gosálvez, Atomistic Modelling of Anisotropic Etching of Crystalline Silicon (Dissertation, Helsinki University of Technology, Espoo, 2003). M.A. Gosálvez, I. Zubel, E. Viinikka, in Handbook of Silicon Based MEMS Materials and Technologies, ed. by V. Lindroos, M. Tilli, A. Lehto, T. Motooka (William Andrew/Elsevier, Amsterdam, Boston, 2010), pp. 375407. P. Gupta, A.C. Dillon, A.S. Bracker, S.M. George, Surf. Sci. 245, 360 (1991) M.M. Heyns, P.W. Martens, J. Ruzyllo, M.Y.M. Lee, Solid State Technol. 42, 37 (1999) V. Hoffmann, M. Steinert, J. Acker, J. Anal. At. Spectrom 26, 1990 (2011) A.F. Holleman, E. Wiberg, N. Wiberg, Lehrbuch der anorganischen Chemie, 102nd edn. (de Gruyter, Berlin, New York, 2007) R. Hull, Properties of Crystalline Silicon (Institution of Electrical Engineers, London, 1999) A.A. Istratov, H. Hieslmair, E.R. Weber, Appl. Phys. A 70, 489 (2000) J.J. Kelly, H.G.G. Philipsen, Curr. Opin. Solid State Mater. Sci. 9, 84 (2005) M.T. Kelly, J.K.M. Chun, A.B.. Bocarsly, Appl. Phys. Lett. 64, 1693 (1994) J.J. Kelly, X.H. Xia, C.M.A. Ashruf, P.J. French, IEEE Sensors J. 1, 127 (2001) W. Kern, J. Electrochem. Soc. 137, 1887 (1990) W. Kern, Handbook of Semiconductor Wafer Cleaning Technology: Science, Technology, and Applications (Noyes Publications, Park Ridge, 1993) 356 A. Stapf et al. W. Kern, D.A. Puotinen, RCA Rev. 187 (1970) K.W. Kolasinski, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 5, 1270 (2003) K.W. Kolasinski, Surf. Sci. 603, 1904 (2009) K.W. Kolasinski, J. Phys. Chem. C 114, 22098 (2010) E.S. Kooij, K. Butter, J.J. Kelly, Electrochem. Solid St. 2, 178 (1999) V. Lehmann, The Electrochemistry of Silicon: Instrumentation, Science, Materials and Applications (Wiley-VCH, Weinheim, 2002) M. Lippold, Beiträge zum Verständnis des sauren nasschemischen Ätzens von Silicium  Das System HF-HNO3-H2SO4/H2O (Dissertation, TU Bergakademie Freiberg, 2014). M. Lippold, S. Patzig-Klein, E. Kroke, Z. Naturforsch., B: J. Chem. Sci. 66b, 155 (2011) M. Lippold, F. Buchholz, C. Gondek, F. Honeit, E. Wefringhaus, E. Kroke, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 127, 104 (2014) L.M. Loewenstein, P.W. Mertens, J. Electrochem. Soc. 145, 2841 (1998) L.M. Loewenstein, F. Charpin, P.W. Mertens, J. Electrochem. Soc. 146, 719 (1999) H. Löwe, P. Keppel, C. Moritz, D. Zach, Halbleiterätzverfahren: Kinetik, Verfahrensgrundlagen und Anwendungsgebiete von nasschemischen Ätzverfahren für Si, GaAs, GaP und InP (Akademie-Verlag, Berlin, 1990) Y.-R. Luo, Comprehensive handbook of chemical bond energies (CRC Press, Boca Raton, 2007) A.R. Martin, M. Baeyens, W. Hub, P.W. Mertens, B.O. Kolbesen, Microelectron. Eng. 45, 197 (1999) B. Meinel, T. Koschwitz, C. Blocks, J. Acker, Mater. Sci. Semicond. Process. 26, 93 (2014) M. Meuris, S. Arnauts, I. Cornelissen, K. Kenis, M. Lux, S. De Gendt, P.W. Mertens, I. Teerlinck, R. Vos, L.M. Loewenstein, M.M. Heyns, K. Wolke, in IEEE International Symposium on Semiconductor Manufacturing (1999), p. 157. H.J. Möller, Adv. Eng. Mater. 6, 501 (2004) Y. Mori, K. Uemura, K. Shimanoe, T. Sakon, J. Electrochem. Soc. 142, 3104 (1995) E. Morita, T. Yoshimi, Y. Shimanuk, ECS Extended Abstracts 891, 22 (1989) D.-H. Neuhaus, A. Münzer, Adv. Optoelectron. 2007, 15 pages (2007). Y. Nishimoto, T. Ishihara, K. Namba, J. Electrochem. Soc. 146, 457 (1999) T. Ohmi, J. Electrochem. Soc. 143, 2957 (1996) T.M. Pan, T.F. Lei, T.S. Chao, M.C. Liaw, F.H. Ko, C.P. Lu, J. Electrochem. Soc. 148, G315G320 (2001) S. Patzig-Klein, G. Roewer, E. Kroke, Mater. Sci. Semicond. Process. 13, 71 (2010) M. Pourbaix, Atlas of Electrochemical Equilibria in Aqueous Solutions (National Association of Corrosion Engineers, Houston, 1974) K.A. Reinhardt, W. Kern, Handbook of Silicon Wafer Cleaning Technology, 2nd edn. (William Andrew, Norwich, 2008) H. Robbins, B. Schwartz, J. Electrochem. Soc. 106, 505 (1959) H. Robbins, B. Schwartz, J. Electrochem. Soc. 107, 108 (1960) I. Röver, G. Roewer, K. Bohmhammel, K. Wambach, Freiberg. Forschungsh. B 179 (2004) K. Sato, M. Shikida, T. Yamashiro, M. Tsunekawa, S. Ito, Sens. Actuators, A 73, 122 (1999) F. Schomann, K. Graff, J. Electrochem. Soc. 136, 2025 (1989) B. Schwartz, H. Robbins, J. Electrochem. Soc. 108, 365 (1961) B. Schwartz, H. Robbins, J. Electrochem. Soc. 123, 1903 (1976) J. Schweckendiek, R. Hoyer, S. Patzig-Klein, F. Delahaye, G. Knoch, H. Nussbaumer, Solid State Phenom. 195, 283 (2012) H. Seidel, L. Csepregi, A. Heuberger, H. Baumgärtel, J. Electrochem. Soc. 137, 3612 (1990) Y. Shiramizu, K. Watanabe, M. Tanaka, H. Aoki, H. Kitajima, J. Electrochem. Soc. 143, 1632 (1996) A. Stapf, F. Honeit, C. Gondek, E. Kroke, Siliziumwafer, Verfahren zum Strukturieren eines Siliziumwafers und Solarzelle, DE 10 2014 001 363 (2016). A. Stapf, F. Honeit, C. Gondek, E. Kroke, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 159, 112 (2017) M. Steinert, J. Acker, M. Krause, S. Oswald, K. Wetzig, J. Phys. Chem. B 110, 11377 (2006) M. Steinert, J. Acker, S. Oswald, K. Wetzig, J. Phys. Chem. C 111, 2133 (2007) H. Treichel, A. Goldstein, M. George, D. Bohling, J. Rentsch, A. Oltersdorf, M. Zimmer, S. Ostrowski, I. Mowat, L. Wang, W. Kern, Photovolt Int 12, 81 (2011) 12 Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization 357 D.R. Turner, J. Electrochem. Soc. 107, 810 (1960) E. Vazsonyi, K. de Clercq, R. Einhaus, E. van Kerschaver, K. Said, J. Poortmans, J. Szlufcik, J. Nijs, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 57, 179 (1999) É. Vázsonyi, E. Szilágyi, P. Petrik, Z. Horváth, T. Lohner, M. Fried, G. Jalsovszky, Thin Solid Films 388, 295 (2001) R. Walsh, Acc. Chem. Res. 14, 246 (1981) Z.-H. Wang, T. Urisu, H. Watanabe, K. Ooi, G.R. Rao, S. Nanbu, J. Maki, M. Aoyagi, Surf. Sci. 575, 330 (2005) M.K. Weldon, B.B. Stefanov, K. Raghavachari, Y.J. Chabal, Phys. Rev. Lett. 79, 2851 (1997) G. Willeke, K. Kellermann, Semicond. Sci. Technol. 11, 415 (1996) K. Wostyn, W. Baekelant, J. Rip, M. Haslinger, K. Kenis, H. Struyf, M. Claes, P.W. Mertens, S. de Gendt, Solid State Phenom. 195, 293 (2012) R. Zanoni, G. Righini, G. Mattogno, L. Schirone, G. Sotgiu, F. Rallo, JOL 80, 159 (1999) X.G. Zhang, Electrochemistry of Silicon and Its Oxide (Kluwer Academic/Plenum Publishers, New York, 2001) I. Zubel, M. Kramkowska, Sens. Actuators, A 101, 255 (2002) 358 A. Stapf et al. Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 13 Hans Joachim Möller Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 360 Wafer Geometry, Total Thickness Variation, and Warp ........................................ 361 Saw Damage of the Wafer Surface ............................................................. 362 Roughness .................................................................................... 363 Subsurface Damage .......................................................................... 367 Basic Surface Damage Mechanisms ............................................................ 376 Single Indentation Tests: Loose Abrasive Sawing .......................................... 376 Single Scratch Tests: Fixed Abrasive Sawing ............................................... 378 Fracture Behavior ................................................................................ 382 Wafer Contamination ............................................................................ 385 Characterization of Wires, Slurries, and Coolants .............................................. 387 Wires ......................................................................................... 387 Slurries and Coolants ........................................................................ 390 Conclusion ....................................................................................... 394 References ....................................................................................... 395 Abstract The technological development of silicon wafer processing for solar cells by multiwire sawing is mainly driven by the need to reduce cost but under the condition to maintain or even improve the wafer quality. This additional require- ment becomes even more important because wafer and wire thickness will decrease in the future and the standard loose abrasive sawing technique will be replaced by the ﬁxed abrasive sawing technique. The essential quality parameters for wafers are total thickness variations (TTV), roughness and grooves, subsurface damage, and fracture strength stabil- ity. These factors depend on the properties of wires, consumables, and machine H. J. Möller (*) Fraunhofer Technology Center for Semiconductor Materials, Freiberg, Germany e-mail: hans.joachim.moeller@thm.fraunhofer.de; moeller@iphat.de; moeller@physik.tu-freiberg.de  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_18 359 sawing parameters. Their investigation and determination require adequate char- acterization methods. The chapter describes standard and new methods, which have been developed to characterize wafers, wires, and consumables. Todays optimization processes also require a basic understanding of the interaction processes between wires, sawing ﬂuid, and the silicon material. Special experi- mental methods, which have been developed to investigate the fundamental micromechanical processes and their ramiﬁcations on the wafer quality parame- ters, are presented. Keywords Silicon wafer  Subsurface damage  Roughness  Thickness variation  Fracture strength  Contamination  Particle indentation  Scratching  Slurry  Diamond wire  Structured wire Introduction The wafering of large silicon crystals by multiwire sawing has been speciﬁcally developed for the photovoltaic industry because it could fulﬁll the demands on the wafers for solar cells. The solar cell processes require a certain and uniform thickness, a defect-free and smooth surface, a certain orientation for texturization (for monocrystalline silicon), and a high fracture stability. Above all the wafering process has to be inexpensive, which includes the cost of all consumables and the loss of silicon itself. The requirements on the wafers become more demanding with the further devel- opment of the solar cell technology. Considering the expected decrease in wafer thickness both for mono- and multicrystalline silicon (Fig. 1), one has to handle the decreasing fracture stability of the wafers and to understand the factors, which are responsible here. Correspondingly the wires become also thinner, which makes the control of sawing process more challenging. Fig. 1 Annual and predicted development of the thickness of commercial mono- and multicrystalline silicon wafers for solar cells and correspondingly the decrease in wire thicknesses (ITRPV 2016) 360 H. J. Möller Furthermore, wafer properties have to be speciﬁed and tested. In mass production wafers are produced at a rate of one wafer per second or less. This requires the development of fast measuring techniques for those properties, which are necessary to guarantee stable sawing conditions. In addition, testing methods have to be developed which allow to determine the speciﬁc information about the wafer properties that can affect the following solar cell process. With the progress of the characterization techniques, one was also able to understand the sawing process better and the impact on the wafer properties. This in return allowed to improve the sawing process and to develop better sawing machines. This development is still ongoing, and at present one cannot predict when and where the limits of the multiwire sawing technology have been reached. Although alternative wafer fabrication techniques are continuously developed, they have not been competitive so far, and many attempts have been abandoned in the past. In the following we shall restrict to the characterization methods, which have been developed for the wire sawn wafers. Wafer Geometry, Total Thickness Variation, and Warp The industrial solar cell fabrication requires wafers with a deﬁned and uniform geometry. The standard geometry is the square shape of 156  156 mm2 for multicrystalline silicon and the same size but with rounded edges for monocrystal- line silicon. The thickness is different for both materials and slightly lower for mono material (Fig. 1). In a multiwire saw, a single wire is used, which is wound several hundred times around two or more spools (guide rollers), forming a parallel arrange- ment of the wire, the so-called wire web (Chap. 11, Wafer Processing). The thickness of the wafers is determined by the distance of the wires, which are guided in grooves over the wire guide rollers, and the thickness of the wires. The grooves are cut into the polymer coating of the rollers, and their quality (shape, depth, distance, etc.) is important for the process. In the sawing process, the wafer thickness can only be maintained to a certain degree. One reason is that the grooves deteriorate after some time and have to be renewed then. Wafers cut from an ingot may also have different thicknesses depending on their position along the wire web. For instance, in the slurry sawn process, the wire is worn and thinner at the end. The control of the thickness and wafer surface is thus important for the process stability. Both the thickness and the surface height proﬁles on both sides, which are a measure for the thickness uniformity, are measured, for instance, with a laser proﬁler or by white light interferometry. Standard is a measurement along certain perpen- dicular lines across the wafer. These values allow to determine the local thickness and if the wafer is bent (warp). The difference between the maximum and minimum height at several (515) intersecting points is given as the TTV (total thickness variation) parameter. Good wafers have TTV values below 25 μm. Thickness, TTV, and warp indicate if the sawing process is running stable. For instance, the 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 361 deterioration of the PEG/SiC slurry can be seen in the TTV of many wafers and allows to determine the time for replacement and recycling. Slurry sawn wafers have a wedge shape and are thicker at the wire outlet side. This is because the material removal process is not uniform along the sawing channel (Chap. 11, Wafer Processing). The wafer thicknesses are more uniform for ﬁxed abrasive sawing because of the back-and-forth motion of the wire. Saw Damage of the Wafer Surface The sawing process damages the wafer surface. There is general agreement today that in the slurry-based sawing, free-ﬂoating abrasive particles in the sawing channel remove material by rolling and indenting into the silicon crystal surface. The same interactions are known from lapping processes, and similar dependencies can be derived here. The larger particles are in direct contact with the wire and the silicon surface. The wire is pushed against the particles and indents these particles into the silicon surface. In the ﬁxed abrasive sawing, the damage is produced by scratching the ﬁxed particles on the wire. Considering the cross section of the sawing channel (Fig. 2), one can see that the interaction of the abrasive particles at the side of the channel is responsible for the damage, whereas the particles below the wire are mainly responsible for the material removal process and the sawing velocity. The damage of the wafer surface is quantiﬁed by measuring the surface proﬁle and deriving certain parameters at different length scales. The roughness is usually determined over a deﬁned length of a few millimeters with a resolution of Fig. 2 Schematic diagram of the cross section of the sawing channel 362 H. J. Möller micrometers. Grooves vary over larger distances and are characterized by their depth, width, and length on larger scale. The determination methods of these parameters are standardized and speciﬁed to some extent. The wafer can also be damaged below the surface. The subsurface damage (SSD) consists of microcracks below the surface, up to 20 μm in length depending on the sawing conditions. In addition, thin layers of silicon material, which have been transformed into an amorphous or microcrystalline structure, can occur. The investigation of SSD is more difﬁcult, and standard methods have not been established. Another quality factor is the wafer cleanness, the contamination with impurities and organic residues from the sawing and cleaning process. Although wafers are cleaned after sawing, a certain non-visible contamination remains. They can affect the following etching processes in the solar cell process and become visible then. The measurement of the contamination requires sophisticated methods, and their development is still at the beginning (Chap. 12, Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization). Wafers with visible and deep grooves or scratches cannot be used for the solar cell process. Furthermore if the saw damage is outside the speciﬁcation range of the wafers, they are also discarded. In mass production more than 95% of all wafers have to be accepted to be cost-effective. A high-quality wafer has a low TTV, a uniform roughness, a low microcrack depth, and a cleanness, which does not disturb the further processing. Roughness The surface proﬁles of wafers sawn with loose abrasives (slurry) and ﬁxed abrasives (diamond-coated wires) are completely different (Fig. 3). In the ﬁrst case, a uniform Fig. 3 Surface height topograms of a slurry sawn wafer (a) and of a ﬁxed abrasive sawn wafer (b) measured by confocal optical microscopy 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 363 surface proﬁle, consisting of statistically distributed shallow pits, occurs, whereas in the second case, the surface proﬁle shows mainly parallel scratches. The depths and distances of the scratches depend on the sawing conditions. This indicates already that the underlying material removal process differs in both cases (Bidiville et al. 2010; Wagner et al. 2010). Today surface height proﬁles are mainly measured by confocal optical micros- copy or by laser optical methods. Both offer a high spatial and height resolution. Different methods are used depending on whether fast or more accurate proﬁles are needed. Roughness parameters are determined from sampling the height proﬁle over a certain length of a few millimeters. The most common measure is the Ra value, which is the arithmetic mean of the absolute values of the height difference from the mean value. Also used is the Rz value, the average distance between the highest peak and lowest valley in each sampling length. This value is greater than Ra. Since these parameters reduce all of the information in a proﬁle to a single number, great care must be taken in applying and interpreting them. Small changes in how the raw proﬁle data is ﬁltered and how the mean line is calculated and the physics of the measurement system can greatly affect the calculated parameter. Loose Abrasive Sawing Although the slurry sawn wafer surfaces appear rather uniform, measurements show that the wafers are thinner at the side where the wire has entered the sawing channel. They thus have a wedge shape. The thickness difference can be about 2040 μm depending on the sawing conditions. Correspondingly the cutting or kerf width decreases toward the wire outlet. This indicates that the material removal process varies along the wire motion. These variations also affect the surface roughness and, as shown in the next chapter, also the microcrack length. The general tendency is that the roughness decreases from wire inlet to wire outlet (Fig. 4). The overall level depends however on the sawing parameters. The roughness increases with the wire velocity and decreases with the feed velocity (not shown here), but the dependence is not strong. The main impact comes from the particle size: larger particles cause a rougher surface. This can also explain the decrease of the roughness along the sawing channel. Analyzing the particle size distribution between wire entry and exit, it could be shown that larger particles are lost along the sawing channel. It appears that the loss of slurry is accompanied by a classiﬁcation of the particle size (Fig. 11, Chap. 11, Wafer Processing). This has been explained by the hydrodynamic pressure differ- ence between the position below the wire and at the side, which causes higher forces on the larger particles and drives them faster toward the free slurry surface. In addition larger particles may also break toward the outlet. Since smaller particles cause less roughness, the remaining smaller particles near the wire exit reduce the roughness. The roughness measurements are also sensitive to individual and deep scratches on a wafer, which can occur when the sawing process is disturbed. Of special importance are scratches, which can occur on those parts of wafers sawn at the 364 H. J. Möller wire exit. These so-called saw marks are visible by the naked eye (Fig. 11, Chap. 11, Wafer Processing). Such wafers cannot be processed into solar cells. It is assumed that the occurrence of these saw marks is related to an instability of wire motion near the exit region of the sawing channel as described in Chap. 11, Wafer Processing. It is necessary to select sawing parameters in the stability region (Fig. 21, Chap. 11, Wafer Processing) to avoid saw marks. If one saws with parameters in the stability region, the roughness correlates with the TTV. Structured Wire Sawing The sawing with structured wires leads to a more uniform distribution of the abrasive along the sawing channel. This is reﬂected in the roughness, which is very sensitive to the particle size. There is also a decrease of the roughness from the wire entry to exit, but one can ﬁnd sawing conditions where the variation is very small. This is shown in Fig. 5 where Ra roughness measurements for wafers sawn with a straight and structured wire are compared. The overall roughness is however higher for the structured wire. Detailed investigations yield the following picture. A structured wire offers more open spaces between the wire and crystal surface between kink segments and less space where it is in contact with the surface (at the kinks). More slurry and particles are transported in the open spaces and supplied to the contact regions where the material is removed. Depending on the wire structure, the slurry transport can be improved and a more uniform roughness reached along the sawing channel (Anspach et al. 2014). The roughness values are however higher compared to the straight wire probably because of the higher forces in the smaller contact regions at the kinks of the wire. Fig. 4 Roughness proﬁles (Rz) from the wire inlet to the wire outlet region for wafers sawn with different grit sizes and wire velocities. The feed velocity is 0.4 mm/min and the mean particle size of F800, 6.5 μm and of F500, 13 μm 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 365 The more uniform particle size distribution along the sawing channel is also reﬂected in the thickness variation (Fig. 6). The TTV values of wafers sawn with structured wires are much lower and show almost no variation along the sawing channel. Fixed Abrasive Sawing The wafers sawn with ﬁxed abrasives show a groove pattern on different length scales. At a mean distance around 1 mm parallel grooves occur, which are visible by the naked eye. They are however shallow with a depth below 10 μm. An example can be seen in Fig. 15. They are due to the oscillating motion of the wire as well as the diamond size Bye et al. (2011). The position of the wires in the grooves of the Fig. 5 Roughness proﬁles (Ra) from the wire inlet to the wire outlet region for wafers sawn with structured and straight wires. The sawing parameters are the same in each case Fig. 6 Total thickness variation (TTV) from the wire inlet to the wire outlet region for wafers sawn with structured and straight wires. The sawing parameters are the same in each case 366 H. J. Möller guider rollers changes slightly sideways when the motion direction is reversed. This leads to sideways displacement of the wire in the sawing channel. Today oscillation parameters can be chosen which reduce the grooves to an acceptable level for the following solar cell processing. The roughness values are not affected by these grooves and in good cases are lower than for the slurry sawn wafers. It is determined by the structure of the scratches where material is removed and which is caused by a scratching particle. The roughness is uniform over the entire surface but differs along the scratches in sawing direction and perpendicular to it. Subsurface Damage The saw-damaged region below the surface (subsurface damage: SSD) cannot be used in a solar cell and has to be etched away. The main factor here is the extension of the cracks into the bulk material. If the region reaches deep into the bulk crystal ( 510 μm on both sides), the etching is connected with a substantial loss of valuable material. In addition, the damaged layer is responsible for the fracture stability of wafers as will be discussed in the chapter about fracture behavior. With the deceasing wafer thickness, both factors become increasingly important for the wafering process. The investigations require not only adequate characterization methods but also an understanding of the micromechanical processes, which cause the damage. Characterization Methods The most reliable technique to determine the subsurface damage is the direct observation of the microcracks. This can be done on beveled surface segments, which are prepared at a low inclination angle of about 1 . After polishing and a slight structural etch, the traces of the microcracks become visible in an optical microscopy (Fig. 7a, b). The extension of the deepest cracks can be calculated from the inclination angle and the position of the last visible crack. Another method is to prepare cross sections of a wafer and observe the microcracks by scanning electron microscopy (Fig. 7c). In both cases great care has to be taken not to induce new cracks by the preparation method. A smooth preparation method is the ion beam milling of wafer cross sections, which gives very planar surfaces and allows to detect shorter cracks below 5 μm in length. The examples show typical microcracks for loose and ﬁxed abrasive sawn wafers. These direct observation techniques can be reliable, but they are also tedious and time-consuming and not suitable to analyze larger parts of a wafer or many wafers. Therefore other methods have been developed to shorten the characterization time. The subsurface damage (SSD) and the roughness originate from the same inden- tation process during wire sawing as will be described later. Therefore one might expect a correspondence between both parameters. Figure 8 shows the results of roughness and maximum crack depth investigations along the sawing channel and on different positions on the same wafer. Continuous measurements along the wire 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 367 direction show that the decrease of the roughness is accompanied by a decrease of the maximum crack depth as one would expect. However, measurements at the beginning, in the middle, and at the end of a cut through an ingot show different quantitative relationships (Bidiville et al. 2010; Würzner et al. 2017). This shows that other factors, which change during the cut, are not taken into account here. The investigation of the individual indentation process in the chapter about basic mech- anisms will show that the number and density of the indentation events have to be considered as well. Nonetheless, roughness measurements may give a ﬁrst indication about the corresponding SSD, but additional investigations are still necessary to obtain quantitative values. A faster, nondestructive method is based on the dispersion of an acoustic surface wave, which is locally exited by a laser pulse (LAwave method). The method utilizes the effect that the dispersion velocity at the surface is changed, when the Fig. 7 (a) Etched traces of microcracks at a beveled, polished surface (slope angle 1) of a slurry sawn wafer. (b) Etched traces of microcracks at a beveled (slope angle 1), polished surface of a diamond wire sawn wafer. (c) Scanning electron microscopy image of microcracks at a cross section of a ﬁxed abrasive sawn wafer 368 H. J. Möller surface is damaged. The velocity is determined by measuring the run time of the acoustic pulse over a certain distance. This effect can be calibrated with the exten- sion of the SSD depth of a wafer. The method is established and commercially available, however limited to mono crystalline silicon. It only allows to probe the wafer at a limited number of positions. Another technique is the SIREX (scanning infrared stress explorer) method (Geiler et al. 2006). It is based on the effect of infrared birefringence. A linearly polarized infrared laser beam is scanned over the surface of the wafer, and the intensity and rotation of the polarization direction of the reﬂected light are measured. Internal elastic stresses can lead to a rotation of the polarization direction and be measured, if there is a difference of the in-plane principal stress components in the wafer plane Δσ = σ1  σ2. Since internal stresses are mostly non-isotropic, one can easily detect stressed regions. The microcracks in the subsurface regions cause elastic stresses there. If the interior of the wafers is stress-free, one can directly detect the stresses in this region (Möller et al. 2016). An example is shown in Fig. 9 for two positions on the same wafer, namely, at the beginning and near the end of the cut. The wafer is sawn with a diamond-coated wire and shows the typical scratch structure. One can also see a different stress level in these parts, which is due to a stronger damage in the lower part of the wafer. Unfortunately a higher stress level does not always correlate with a deeper damage depth. The technique therefore requires additional investigations of the damage depth by direct observation. The method is however very stress sensitive and has a high lateral resolution of a few micrometer. Fig. 8 Correlation of roughness and maximum subsurface damage depth along the sawing channel and at different positions on a wafer 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 369 A method which is also sensitive to microcrack-induced stresses is the Raman spectroscopy. Raman lines in silicon can be obtained by excitation with a laser beam at a wavelength of 532 nm. At this wavelength the laser light penetrates about 800 nm into the crystal. Crystalline silicon gives a Raman line at the wave number 521 cm1 and amorphous silicon at 470 cm1 and 150 cm1. This allows one to detect also phase transformations of the silicon. Tensile and compressive stresses in the crystalline material shift the peaks to lower or higher wave numbers and can thus be detected (Fig. 10). The peak shifts could be calibrated with stresses: a Raman shift of  3.2 cm1 corresponds to  1 GPa stress (Gogotsi et al. 1999). Scanning the excitation beam over the specimen surface and measuring the peak shifts yield stress topograms. An example is shown in Fig. 11 for a wafer which has been sawn by new and used diamond-coated wire. The maximum tensile and compressive stresses are around 1 GPa. These are absolute stress values, whereas the SIREX method detects the difference or anisotropy of the main stress Fig. 9 Calculated stress difference Δσ topograms from SIREX measurements of a part of a diamond sawn wafer: (a) at the beginning and (b) at the end of the cut Fig. 10 Raman spectra at different positions along a single scratch showing peak shift due to local stresses and peak broadening due to amorphization 370 H. J. Möller components, which is much smaller around 15 MPa. Raman measurements at the wafer surface detect the stresses near the surface ( 1 μm) that are generated by the microcracks, which extend much deeper into the crystal. Measurements on wafer cross sections allow one to determine the stresses around the microcracks itself. Raman measurements also revealed that under certain sawing conditions, dia- mond sawn wafers show amorphous regions on the surface. The distribution of these areas can be depicted in Raman topograms. The fraction of amorphization can be obtained by the integration of the Raman spectra lines at the corresponding wave numbers. A theoretical relation allows one to calculate the thickness of the amor- phous layer from the ratio of the amorphous/crystalline peak areas (Yan et al. 2008) and the spatial distribution of the regions. These topographic techniques are not fast enough for an in-line screening of wafers in production but allow the sampling of wafers produced under different sawing conditions and the investigation of the dependence on sawing parameters. Although these relatively new experimental methods show many details of the sawing process, the full potential of their results has not been explored yet. Dependence on Sawing Parameters The primary industrial interest is to reduce the extension of the damaged layer by using appropriate sawing conditions. Because of the many dependences, it is not easy to ﬁnd optimum sawing parameters, and usually long series of tests are required. With the development toward thinner wafers and wires (Fig. 1) and the introduction of the structured and diamond wire sawing, previous optimum param- eters cannot directly be transferred to the new conditions but have to be determined again. Furthermore the dependence of the SSD on sawing parameters differs for loose and ﬁxed abrasive sawing because of the different micromechanical damage mechanisms. Therefore one also has to consider the two cases separately. Fig. 11 Mappings of the wave number shift of the crystalline silicon Raman peak for a wafer sawn with fresh (a) and used wire (b). Both measurements were carried out at the same position of the wafer 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 371 Loose Abrasive Sawing The microcracks are generated by indenting the abrasive particles as will be described in the next section. They extend from the wafer surface into the volume, and their length depends on the local indentation force on the particle Fp. The average force is related to the total normal force Fn on the wire by Fp = Fn / m where m is the number of particles in contact with the wire. It has been shown in Chap. 11, Wafer Processing that the number m depends on the total force Fn, the particle size distribution, their shape, and the hydrodynamic pressure in the slurry, which depends on wire speed and the slurry viscosity. These parameters vary along the sawing channel and usually cannot be measured locally. Correspondingly SSD depth and roughness also vary. There are not too many quantitative results available because of the high exper- imental effort to measure SSD depths. Some results have been obtained however, showing the correlation between roughness and SSD (Fig. 8). Similar to the rough- ness (Fig. 4), the microcrack depth decreases toward the wire outlet, whereas the number of cracks per unit length increases as is shown in Fig. 12. This can be explained by the loss of larger particles and the increasing number of smaller particles, which come into contact toward the end of the sawing channel. The quantitative values of the SSD depths depend mainly on the grit size and much less on sawing rate, wire speed, and SiC concentration. Finer grit sizes reduce the damage depth (Möller 2014), but the reduction of the grit size is limited because this increases the total force on the wire and one reaches the load limit of the wires. This becomes particularly difﬁcult, when thinner wires are used in the future, which have a lower mechanical load capacity. The SSD depths are typically between 5 and 15 μm and can hardly be reduced below these values. Fig. 12 Number of microcracks on the wafer surface as a function of the distance from the wire inlet measured along the cutting direction. The numbers depend on the sawing parameters, which are given in the diagram 372 H. J. Möller For structured wires no SSD measurements are available, but considering the roughness measurements, one expects a more uniform damage compared to straight wire sawing (Fig. 5). Fixed Abrasive Sawing Apart from the productivity advantages, the ﬁxed abrasive sawing has also attracted more interest because it appears that less damage can be achieved with this tech- nique. For instance it has been reported by Bye et al. (2011) that comparing loose and ﬁxed abrasive sawing, the roughness of wafers decreases from Ra = 0.5 μm (loose) to 0.3 μm (ﬁxed) for their industrial process and correspondingly the SSD depth from 6 to 2.5 μm at the wire outlet side of the wafers. To understand this one has to look at the micromechanical processes. The microcracks are generated by the stresses that the particles generate in the crystal. The stress ﬁeld of a scratching particle differs from the stress ﬁeld of an indenting particle (Fig. 13). Due to the horizontal force component in the ﬁrst case, tensile and compressive stresses occur along the motion direction. Correspondingly the micro- crack pattern around a scratching particle differs from that of an indenting particle regarding the distribution and size. The cracks are aligned along the direction of the sawing scratches (Fig. 7b) and show a distinct pattern which is repeated periodically (Fig. 7c). Investigations have also shown that the SSD depth varies over the wafer surface with the highest values near the end of the cut (Würzner 2017). In this particular study, average values between 3 and 6 μm have been measured, which are lower compared to a slurry sawn wafer (for comparison see Fig. 8). Nonetheless there is a great variation in the SSD depth for different sawing parameters, and one has to study the dependences carefully. Considering the strong dependence of the SSD on the grit size for loose abrasive sawing, one may expect the same for ﬁxed abrasive sawing. Although there are commercial wires with different size distributions for the ﬁxed diamonds, there are at present much less variation and control over size distributions and particle density. In addition the particles on fresh wires are covered by the coating layer, which makes it difﬁcult to determine the actual size, shape, and height distribution. A few results Fig. 13 Schematic comparison of the stress situation of an indenting (a) and a scratching (b) particle. The forces, plastic zones, and possible microcrack formations are indicated 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 373 indicate that sharper particles induce lower damage depth, and correspondingly, since the wear of the particles on the wire decreases their sharpness, the damage increases. However, at present an appropriate characterization of particles on dia- mond wires does not exist; therefore such results still have to be treated cautiously. More important is that the damage depth decreases with the wire velocity (Fig. 14; Würzner et al. 2015). A recently developed theoretical model for the SSD depth also predicts a decrease with the wire velocity (Li et al. 2016). In the model the stresses and resulting cracks are calculated based on experimental data for the indentation of particles in brittle materials. Although the results for SSD depth are not directly compared with experimental data, some parameters in the model have been determined by experimental measurements on wafers sawn with resin- bonded wires. The calculated damage depths are however higher in this case compared to the experimental data of Würzner et al. (2015). Furthermore the model predicts an increase of the SSD with the sawing (feed) rate. Since sawing with diamond wires allows higher feed velocities, the SSD should be higher then. On the other hand, one can adjust the wire speed, so that altogether the damage depth can be kept low or even reduced. Due to the back-and-forth sawing mode, the wire speed varies however between zero and the maximum speed. It is therefore necessary to adjust the maximum wire speed and the acceleration phases, to maintain an overall low damage depth. Since the next generation of sawing machines will allow higher sawing speeds, one has more ﬂexibility and can expect that wafers sawn with diamond wires will have less SSD in the future. A new observation for diamond wire sawn wafers is the occurrence of an amorphous phase at the surface (Würzner et al. 2017). A systematic investigation by Raman spectroscopy topograms has shown that the amorphous/crystalline ratio varies between 0.2 and 1.3. A theoretical relation between the ratio and the corresponding thickness of the amorphous layer allows one to calculate the layer thickness and yields values between 8 and 35 nm (Yan et al. 2008). These amor- phous regions are thus very thin. Two factors have been found to increase amorphization, the wire velocity and the wear of the wire. Whether these amorphous Fig. 14 Dependence of the microcrack depth on the wire velocity for single scratches. Single scratch measurement (Würzner et al. 2015) and calculation (Li et al. 2016) 374 H. J. Möller regions have a technological importance, for instance, for the following texturization etching, is not clear yet but is important in view of an understanding of the micromechanical processes. It has also been found however that the cleaning step after sawing has an inﬂuence on the thickness of the amorphous layer on the wafer surface. It was observed that by a standard cleaning procedure, more than 50% of the surface amorphization after sawing is etched away by the chemical process. This may be the reason that the amorphization is not always observed since wafers are normally characterized after the cleaning step. A striking difference between loose and ﬁxed abrasive sawing has been observed for multicrystalline silicon. Fixed abrasive sawing causes a higher saw damage for multicrystalline than for monocrystalline silicon. These wafers are mechanically less stable and show higher TTV. Such a different behavior does not occur for slurry- based sawing. The difference between multi- and monocrystalline material is that the crystal orientation varies locally in each grain. Since the crack formation is orientation dependent, it has been assumed that this plays a role here. Figure 15 shows results from microcrack analyses on different grains on the same multicrystalline wafer. One can see that the crack length depends on the local orientation of the grains in the multicrystalline wafer. Even for the same (110) orientation, different crack depths have been observed, which could be explained by the different orientations of the (110) grains with respect to the scratching direction. It is therefore reasonable to assume that in a multicrystalline wafer, always a number of unfavorable orientations occur which lead to rather deep cracks. These deeper cracks are responsible for the lower fracture toughness of the wafers. Whether these results completely explain the different behavior of these two materials is not quite clear yet, but ﬁxed abrasive sawing is industrially not yet suitable for Fig. 15 Microcrack depth dependence on the grain orientation in a multicrystalline wafer. The grain orientations are normal to the wafer surface. The optical image of the wafer surface also shows the periodic grooves lines, which are typical for ﬁxed abrasive sawn wafers 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 375 multicrystalline silicon. There is however the hope that one can solve these problems in the future and can introduce the ﬁxed abrasive sawing technique later for multicrystalline silicon as well. Basic Surface Damage Mechanisms The investigations of the damage pattern on sawn wafers have shown that they consist of many, mostly separated, single events with the abrasive particles. In the case of the sawing with loose abrasives, it is the indentation of a sharp particle into the crystal surface, in the case of ﬁxed abrasive sawing the scratching of a particle over the surface. The basic difference is the direction of the applied force on the particle, which is vertical in the ﬁrst case and oblique in the scratching mode, because of an additional, horizontal force component (Fig. 13). This induces differ- ent micromechanical processes, which can be studied quantitatively with single particles and are described in more detail in the following. For a review see ref. (Möller 2008, 2014). A number of such investigations have been carried out and yield a good picture of these processes. The results help to understand many features of the sawing process as described in Chap. 11, Wafer Processing. The exper- iments and the main results of the single event processes are described next. Single Indentation Tests: Loose Abrasive Sawing The individual particle interaction processes have been studied quantitatively by indentation experiments. A geometrically deﬁned sapphire or diamond tip is indented under load into a silicon surface. The resulting damage pattern depends on the shape of the indenter tip. A sharp tip, which is appropriate to investigate the interaction of abrasive particles, is used in a Vickers indenter. It uses a square-shaped tip with an opening angle of 136. A variation of the Vickers test is the Knoop test, which uses a rhombohedrally shaped tip with an opening angle of 130 for the short edge and 172,5 for the long edge. From the large number of results that have been published for silicon and other brittle materials (Evans and Marshall 1981; Lawn 1993; Li and Bradt 1996), the following sequence of events can be deduced (Fig. 13a). After indentation and at low loads, a plastic zone forms ﬁrst, which leads to a permanent pit in the surface (Fig. 16). In the case of the Vickers indenter, the diagonal of the square-shaped pit a depends on the applied load Fp and can be described by the following equation: a ¼ α 4H tan φ ½ 2 Fp !1=2 (1) where H is the hardness of the material, φ the opening angle of the indentation tip, and α a geometry factor. Measurements for monocrystalline silicon at room 376 H. J. Möller temperature yield H = 10.6 GPa (Hamblin and Stachowiak 1995; Poon and Bushan 1995). This dependence has been found for many brittle materials and also been veriﬁed by numerous numerical calculations (Lawn 1993). It is usually used to determine the hardness of a material from the extension of the indentation pit. The plastic zone in the vicinity of the indentation pit is a region where the crystalline silicon is transformed under pressure into high-pressure phases (Gogotsi et al. 1999; Jang et al. 2005; Gassilloud et al. 2005). For instance, under loading at 11.8 GPa, an endothermic transformation to metallic silicon (Si II) occurs. A metallic phase can deform plastically, which leads to a high density of dislocations in this area (Fig. 16a). These regions are very thin ( 100 nm) so that the extension of the plastic zone is not much larger than the indentation pit in Fig. 16b. Raman investi- gations have also shown that upon unloading, a back transformation of the high- pressure phases takes place into the amorphous silicon phase if the stress release is fast (Domnich and Gogotsi 2002). It is of more interest, however, when the load is increased further and the material breaks. Different types of crack systems can occur depending on the crystal orien- tation and the tip geometry. So-called median directly under the load tip and/or radial cracks more at the side extend vertically into the surface. These are halfpenny- shaped cracks with a diameter c on the surface. The force dependence of the median crack length c is given by c ¼ β Kc Fp  2=3 (2) where Kc is the fracture toughness of the material and β a geometry factor. For the Vickers indenter, the parameter β for monocrystalline silicon is β = 2 and for a Knoop indenter β = 4/π, while the best ﬁt value for multicrystalline silicon ß = 1/7 varies considerably in published data. In large-grained polycrystalline silicon, Kc = 0.75 MPa m1/2 (Chen and Leipold 1980; Anstis et al. 1981). Fig. 16 Transmission electron microscopy image of the plastic zone and a microcrack at a cross section of an as-sawn wafer (a). Optical micrograph of median and lateral cracks around a Vickers indentation at the wafer surface (b). The extension of the plastic zone corresponds to the extension of the indentation pit 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 377 When the load is removed, the stress difference between the highly strained plastic zone and the stress-free crystalline silicon leads to the formation of lateral cracks. When they reach the surface, a piece of material is removed, in Fig. 16b to the side of the indentation pit. This process is responsible for the material removal in the sawing process. The volume Vo of the chipped material depends on the extension and depth of the lateral crack. The depth is approximately equal to the depth of the plastic zone (see Fig. 13a). Vo has been determined experimentally and depends on the applied load according to Vo ¼ γF2:2 p (3) where γ is a geometry factor (Möller and Funke 2003). The volume Vo for a single indentation event enters into Eq. 5 for the sawing rate in Chap. 11, Wafer Processing. This is justiﬁed if the single event is well separated, which is actually observed. Since the formation of the median/radial cracks occurs before the chipping, these cracks partially remain in the crystal surface at the side of the sawing channel since they extend deeper into the bulk. They form the subsurface saw damage (SSD) of the as-sawn wafers (Chauhan et al. 1993; Verspui et al. 1995; Cook 1990). When material chips away, the plastic zone is basically removed. Therefore back- transformed, amorphous silicon is not observed on the surface wafers sawn by loose abrasives. The roughness of the wafers is determined by the depth of the indentation after material is removed. This is basically the depth of the plastic zone, which can be calculated from Eq. 1, if the indentation pits are well separated. If they overlap, the difference between minimum and maximum surface height also depends on the density of the indentation events. This explains that microcrack depth and roughness both depend on the applied force Fp and are correlated, but the relationship between both quantities also depends on the local number of indenting particles if over- lapping occurs. This may explain the observed different roughness vs. SSD depen- dencies in Fig. 8. Single Scratch Tests: Fixed Abrasive Sawing There is general agreement that in ﬁxed abrasive sawing, material removal occurs by scratching the diamond particles over the crystal surface. Figure 7b showed the typical damage pattern of an as-sawn wafer. It consists of many parallel scratches along the sawing direction. The distance and depth of the scratches depend on the sawing conditions. The microcrack damage below the surface can be determined on the polished, beveled surface parts of the image, but it is difﬁcult to quantitatively investigate the damage structure. It is therefore useful to analyze single scratches, which are produced under controlled conditions. Simple scratching tests use a sharp needle which is moved with a constant velocity and load over the crystal surface. The scratch velocities are in the range 378 H. J. Möller of centimeters per second, which is much lower than the speeds, which occur in diamond wire sawing. High-speed scratching can be achieved by rotating a wheel with a single particle on the outer rim and indenting the particle tip once per rotation into the crystal surface. Using such a method, single scratches were produced on a monocrystalline (100) silicon surface at speeds of meters per second (Würzner et al. 2014a). The forces have been measured vertically (indentation force) and horizon- tally (friction force) to the surface during scratching. Figure 17 shows a typical scratch after such a test. It consists of a shallow groove in the center, areas where material has been chipped away on the side (lateral cracks) and traces of micro- cracks, which extend into the bulk. In the groove itself, material is pulverized and the debris spread in the vicinity. The shape and direction of these microcracks can be observed by the beveled surface technique after polishing and etching (Fig. 18). This allows one to determine the maximum depth of the microcracks. The observed pattern resembles the patterns that are observed on as-sawn wafers. An important feature is the periodicity (Würzner et al. 2014b; Möller 2014) which can also be seen on cross sections parallel to the scratch direction by scanning electron microscopy (Fig. 19b). This pattern is explained by the following sequence of events. In the ﬁrst step, the scratching tip is indented into the surface by the back force of the bowed wire. Since the tip is also pulled by the wire in wire motion direction, the resulting force points obliquely into the bulk (see Fig. 13b). The stress, which builds up, has not been calculated so far, but one can assume that it consists of tensile stresses behind the tip and compressive stress components in front of the tip. The stresses depend on the tip shape and the orientation of the crystal. This could be conﬁrmed by the experimental results. The stresses eventually will lead to cracking. Usually one can expect a crack directly in front of the moving direction and several cracks to the sides. Because of the oblique force, some cracks will chip material away mainly in front of the tip. Once the material breaks, the tip can move a certain distance before it is blocked again. Then the process of stress buildup and breakage repeats itself. The lengths of the cracks depend on the applied forces both in wire direction and in the vertical (indentation) direction. Quantitative measurements yield a crack length Fig. 17 Optical image of a single scratch showing a groove in the center, lateral (parallel to the surface), and median cracks (inclined to the surface) to the side 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 379 dependence on the applied force on the particle tip as given in Fig. 20. One can see that different curves are obtained for different particle shapes. Particles with sharp tips (needles) yield deeper cracks compared to the rounder particles on a diamond-coated wire. A slight dependence on the crystal orientation was also observed. The force on a single abrasive particles Fp in diamond wire sawing can be estimated from the measured total force on the wire Fn and the average number of simultaneously scratching particles m. Estimations show that Fp = Fn/m is less than 100 mN; therefore microcrack lengths less than 10 μm can be expected from these curves. This is consistent with the observed microcrack depths on diamond wire sawn wafers. Fig. 18 Single scratch test showing periodic crack patterns. The upper image shows the damage at the surface. In the images (b and c), the surface is inclined by about 1 from left to right. The right- hand side of image (c) is about 10 μm below the surface Fig. 19 Traces of microcracks from a single scratch on a diamond sawn wafer showing periodic crack patterns. The center groove has been removed by etching (a). Scanning electron microscope image of the cross section of a wafer showing the periodic microcrack pattern (b) 380 H. J. Möller In the scratching mode, highly strained regions occur in front (compressed region) and behind (tensile region) the indenting tip (Fig. 13b). If the stresses are high enough, the silicon diamond lattice will be transformed into one of the high- pressure phases of silicon, which have already been observed under indentation. When the particle tip moves forward and the stress is released fast, as is expected here, the crystal lattice will transform back into the amorphous phase. Since chipping occurs mainly in front of the moving tip, any phase changes that occur in this part of the material will be removed. But phase changes behind the moving tip could remain. This may explain why thin amorphous regions have been observed on the surface after ﬁxed abrasive sawing contrary to loose abrasive sawing. The amount of material which is removed by single scratch consists of the volume of the groove and of chipped regions at the sides. A quantitative investigation of the material removal of a single scratch has yielded the results in Fig. 21 where the average cross section of the scratch Asc is plotted as function of the indentation force on a single particle Fp (Würzner et al. 2015). Considering the force range in diamond Fig. 20 Experimentally determined crack length dependence on the force applied in indentation direction. Single scratch tests with different particles and tip shapes. For comparison a value is included (marked by sawing) which is obtained from a ﬁxed abrasive sawn wafer Fig. 21 Cross-sectional area of the groove of a scratch (including the chipped areas) as a function of the applied indentation force 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 381 wire sawing of Fp  100 mN, the cross section Asc is approximately linearly dependent on the applied force Fp. This dependence has been used in Eq. 16 in Chap. 11, Wafer Processing, which yielded a Preston-like equation for the sawing rate of ﬁxed abrasive sawing. Fracture Behavior In mass production the loss of wafers due to breakage is an important issue, since it limits the productivity. Along the processing chain from wafering to the ﬁnal module, there are many handling steps which stress the wafer mechanically. The fracture stability is therefore important, particularly, when the thicknesses are reduced further in the future. Several tests have been developed to determine the fracture stability. The standard methods are deformation test where the wafers are bent in a controlled way until it breaks (Funke et al. 2004; Orellana Pérez 2009, 2014). The most common are the four-line bending (Fig. 22a) and the ring-on-ring test. In the ring-on-ring test, the rings can also be replaced by balls to reduce the contact area with the wafer (Fig. 22b). The tests differ in the way how stress is applied across the wafer surface and the edges. In the four-line bending, the center of the wafer is strained along a line across the surface. In addition two opposite edges of the wafers Fig. 22 Different fracture tests: (a) four-line bending, (b) ball-on-three ball, (c) FEM calculation of the stress distribution in the center of the wafer for the ball-on-three-ball test 382 H. J. Möller are also strained. In the ring-on-ring or ball-on-three-ball test, only the center area is strained, whereas the edges remain unstrained. Therefore the comparison of these two tests allows one to separate the inﬂuence of the edges and the wafer surface. Other test geometries have also been applied, such as the twist test. In this case all four edges are strained. Because of the brittle behavior of silicon, the fracture occurs by the propagation of cracks. They are initiated at defects in the material, in the case of high purity silicon at pre-existing cracks either on the surface or at the edges of the wafers. Depending on their length c, a certain threshold stress σf is required to open them completely and induce breakage. According to the Grifﬁth criterion, they are connected by σf ﬃﬃc p ¼ ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ 2Eγs π r (4) where E is Youngs modulus and γs the surface energy of the material. The fracture therefore begins at the longest cracks and in the regions of highest stresses. In all test methods, the applied force and the corresponding deformation or strain are measured until the wafer breaks. To determine the regions of highest stresses, one has to calculate the stress distribution in the wafer from the deformation state and the applied force. A difﬁculty in these tests is that for thin wafers very large deforma- tions can occur such as in Fig. 22a. This requires in general comprehensive ﬁnite element calculations for each deformation mode and wafer geometry, since linear approximations of the stress-strain relationship, which are valid for low deforma- tions only, cannot be applied anymore (Fig. 22c). For a standard wafer size, the results of FEM calculations for wafers still depend on the thickness. Since the thickness varies even in batch of wafers from the same cut, it would be very time- consuming to make a FEM calculation for each wafer. One can derive however a master force-strain curve, which is normalized to a standard thickness and depends on the thickness d by a simple power law d3. This can be applied then to the different thicknesses of each wafer. The determination of the fracture strength of wafers is however still an elaborate method. Since microcracks are formed during the material removal by the wire sawing process, the mechanical stability of the wafers is mainly determined by these microcracks in the subsurface damage zone and at the edges. The weakest link, which is the longest crack in the region of highest stresses of the deformed wafer, will cause mechanical failure when the wafer is loaded with stresses exceeding the threshold strength σf of that crack. When deforming different wafers in a batch of comparable wafers, the fracture stresses will still vary because of the statistical distribution of the pre-existing crack lengths. Statistical considerations based on a Poisson distribution of crack lengths result in a Weibull distribution of fracture stresses F σ ð Þ ¼ 1  e σ=σo ð Þm (5) 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 383 Here F(σ) is the failure probability for a stress; σ, σo is the characteristic fracture stress, where 63% of all wafers are broken; and m is the Weibull parameter which characterizes the width of the fracture stress distribution. A narrow distribution has m values around 13. Usually at least 30 wafers sawn under the same conditions and of comparable properties should be tested for a statistically signiﬁcant Weibull analysis. The characteristic fracture stress σo is taken as the fracture stress value of wafers sawn under the same conditions. Experimental investigations showed that microcracks at the edges of wafers can cause higher failure than microcracks on the surface, because they are usually longer. In the wafering process, the edges of the wafers are the side wafers of the ingots out of which they are sawn. It is therefore necessary to polish the side faces before the sawing as described in Chap. 11, Wafer Processing. By such a treatment, one can reduce the usually dominant fracture at the wafer edges to an acceptable level. Figure 23 shows four-line bending test results for batches of as-sawn wafers and wafers where the damaged surface layers are removed by etching. The data are usually presented as Weibull plots: ln (1/(1F)) vs. ln σ, which gives straight lines. Deviations from the linearity indicate that fracture is not only determined by the pre-existing microcracks but that other factors contribute to the failure, such as inclusions in the material. The removal of the microcracks in the damaged layer and edges increases the fracture strength by a factor of 35. As-sawn wafers are therefore rather fragile. Since they run through a number of handling steps (cleaning, measuring, transportation, etc.) before solar cell processing, they can easily break then. A low saw damage is therefore essential to obtain a high yield in production. In the case of loose abrasive sawing, the fracture stresses σo of as-sawn wafers are usually between 140 and 170 MPa. They are lower for SiC powders with larger Fig. 23 Weibull plots (failure probability) for as-sawn and etched wafers. The thicknesses of the removed damage layers are indicated 384 H. J. Möller average grain sizes, which indicate that coarser particles cause longer microcracks and a deeper damage depth. Fixed abrasive sawing yields usually higher fracture stresses σo around 160200 MPa. There is however an orientation dependence of the fracture stress, since bending the wafers along the groove lines causes lower values than bending perpendicular to it. Therefore in wafer production no large difference in the breakage rate has been observed between loose and ﬁxed abrasive sawn wafers. If the fracture strength of the wafers is determined by subsurface saw damage only, it does not depend on the wafer thickness if the sawing conditions are the same. However it requires less force to induce the same fracture stress in a thinner wafer. Therefore the handling of thinner wafers is more prone to breakage and has to be done more carefully in a production environment. Wafer Contamination Good wafers are cleaned after sawing and then supplied to the cell manufacturer. Before the solar cell process, the surface damage has to be removed by etching. In general, the etching is also used to give the surface a certain texture to reduce the optical reﬂectivity of the solar cell. The etching process differs for mono- and multicrystalline silicon and depends on the surface proﬁle. It requires, for instance, a different process if the wafers are sawn by ﬁxed abrasive wires instead by loose abrasives. The impact of the difference in surface characteristics also seems to be dependent on the cell process. Some manufacturers seem to be able to utilize ﬁxed abrasive wafers with only minor cell process changes, while others experience challenging problems, for instance, with the texturing process. The etching rate of ﬁxed abrasive sawn wafers has been reported to be lower than for loose abrasive sawn wafers. It has been suggested that this is due to amorphous silicon on the surface (Bidiville et al. 2009) and a lower roughness (Holt et al. 2010). The texturing of monocrystalline wafers by anisotropic etching is however less dependent on the wafer surface morphology. For multicrystalline wafers the texturing of ﬁxed abrasive sawn wafers becomes challenging, due to the use of an acid-based isotropic etch, which has been designed to develop the texture from the slurry-related pits on loose abrasive sawn wafers. The chemistry behind etching and texturing of silicon wafers is rather complex and will be discussed in great detail in Chap. 12, Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization. Another wafer quality element, which is relevant for texturing and eventually for minority carrier lifetime in the solar cell, is the wafer cleanliness. An apparently clean wafer can be full of ﬁngerprints or other stains after texturing. This is due to residues from organic compounds on the surface. The detection of organic traces and their chemical composition is a difﬁcult task because of the very low concentrations. Even more important are metallic impurities. The wear of the wire leads to an enrichment of the slurry or coolant with metal components of the wire. In the case of the straight and structured wire, these are mainly Cu and Zn from the coating of fresh wire; Fe and alloy elements of the core wire such as Cr, Ni, B, or P; etc. For 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 385 diamond-coated wire, one has higher concentrations of Ni from the coating layer but much less Fe and other impurities from the core wire. A further source of contam- ination is from the beam, in which the ingots are glued and in which the wires cut at the end. Different beam materials are used, but glass plates are very common. Al, Na, K, and Ca are typical elements which can be introduced here in relatively high concentrations. Altogether one has about 12 wt% of contamination impurities. How much of these elements is actually deposited on the wafer surface depends on the wafer cleaning procedures and the chemistry in the slurry. It is therefore not sufﬁcient to analyze the impurity content in the slurry or coolant, but one also has to measure the contamination on the wafer surface. Because of the very low concen- trations, one needs sophisticated detection methods here such as inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy (ICP-MS). For comparison Table 1 gives some results for the main impurities from loose abrasive and ﬁxed abrasive sawn wafers Bye et al. (2011). They show that except for Ni, which can be explained from the wire coating, all other measured elements are lower for sawing with diamond-coated wires. Whether this is generally the case or is just a result of the special cleaning procedures in these cases is not clear yet. The transition metals are even in low concentrations very detrimental in silicon and deteriorate the minority carrier lifetime. Al, B, and P are doping elements in silicon and could change the doping level. Although the wafers are cleaned and etched after sawing, there are indications from solar cell processes that remnants of these elements are introduced into wafers. It is thus necessary to investigate possible paths from the slurry onto the wafer surface and into the wafers. Most transition metals are only introduced at higher temperatures. In the sawing process, higher temperatures up to eventually 150 C occur in the sawing channel only locally and for a very short time. A second high-temperature step (below 150 C) may occur in the cleaning baths. Particularly copper has a high diffusivity and may be introduced into the bulk silicon. One also assumes that even after the wafer cleaning, traces of these elements remain together with very ﬁne silicon saw dust on the rough surface and inside of the microcracks. Even after the damage etches before the solar cell processing, some of these impurities may remain in very deep cracks and diffuse into the bulk silicon during the further processing steps. Since there is a general lack of characterization methods for quantifying wafer cleanliness, the contamination problem is still in an early stage of investigations. But Table 1 ICP-MS results of impurity concentrations on a wafer surface of fixed abrasive sawn (FAS) and loose abrasive sawn (LAS) wafers. For some impurities the detection limit of the method is given as an upper limit for the concentration Element FAS ( 109 cm2) LAS ( 109 cm2) Fe 1000 50.000 Cu 200 30.000 Ni 20  8 Zn  40 50 Ca 300 600 Na  100 200 386 H. J. Möller in the industry, one tries already to prevent the elements to reach the wafer surface by keeping them in the slurry or coolant. This can be done by certain additives, which form compounds with these elements and bind them. In the cleaning process, they may then be removed more easily. At present, only the following solar cell processes show, if cleaning procedures have succeeded or are more efﬁcient. Characterization of Wires, Slurries, and Coolants For a long time, the characterization of wires has not attracted much interest, since in the standard slurry sawing process with straight steel wires, they are used only once and discarded then. The main properties of interest are the fracture strength, the wear, and the cost. The wire wear has some importance because the thickness of the wire decreases from the beginning of the cut to the end and correspondingly the strength as well. With the further development of structured and diamond-coated wires, new properties have to be quantiﬁed and corresponding characterization methods to be developed. In slurry-based sawing, the characterization and improvement of the slurry always play an important role, because it can have a strong impact on the sawing performance and is an important cost factor. The technological change from straight to structured and diamond-coated wires requires now the development of new ﬂuid systems. In ﬁxed abrasive sawing, the ﬂuid mainly has the task to cool and remove the silicon kerf. PEG with a higher water content or water with some additives are used here. Because of the cost advantages of water-based ﬂuids, one also tries now the replacement of PEG by water in the case of loose abrasive sawing with structured wires. This requires the selection of additives to improve the SiC transport and other properties. Wires The fracture strength of steel wires depends on the material properties and the homogeneity of the wire diameter. Because of the length of several hundred kilo- meters on a single spool, it is not easy to investigate the entire length. One method is to measure the diameter optically, while the wire is spooled at a high speed from one spool to another. Such measurements can investigate the uniformity of the wire diameter but do not allow to ﬁnd local material faults, such as inclusions, which can cause wire rupture. Therefore the risk of a material-related breakage of a wire cannot be avoided completely. The wire wear is even more important because the thickness of the wire decreases from the beginning of the cut to the end and correspondingly the strength as well. Figure 24 shows the decrease of the diameter of the wire as function of the cutting length in silicon. The cutting length is the distance, over which a wire segment is in contact with the silicon material during cutting. In a typical wire web with about 2000 wires, a segment of the wire has to cut through about 300 m of silicon before it 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 387 leaves the ingot. The diameter decreases then by about 810 μm but may not be uniform over the cross section. Investigations of the wire surface show a rather uniform surface structure, which can be explained by the grinding action of all SiC particles in the slurry (Fig. 25). This occurs only on the contact side of the wire, but since the wires rotate during winding up and cutting, the wear occurs mostly over the entire wire surface. Awire needs a good wear resistance to this erosion process at the surface. Microhardness measurements on wire cross sections did not show differ- ences between the core and the surface, which indicates that wire manufacturers do not especially modify or harden the surface in the wire drawing process. In addition to the wear, the wire is also plastically deformed during the cutting. This occurs primarily during the ﬁrst 100200 loops in the wire web (Meißner et al. 2014). If a wire segment between the guide rollers is elongated, the wire tension force is reduced. The cutting segments of the wire respond by changing the local bow, which is therefore not uniform for all wire segments in the web. These property changes in one cut have an impact on the wafer thickness and the quality of the wafer surface. The ﬁrst wafers from an ingot, where the wire enters, have usually better properties compared to the wafers from the end. With the decrease of the wire thickness, the fracture strength and wear become more signiﬁcant. Recent develop- ments have shown that wires with thicknesses down to 60 μm can be made. Such a wire cannot reduce its diameter much further. The development of a better wear Fig. 24 Wear of the wire diameter as a function of the cutting length in silicon Fig. 25 Surface structure of a used steel wire: optical image (left), scanning electron microscope image (right) 388 H. J. Möller resistance of the wire and the choice of other sawing parameters, e.g., a reduced input wire tension, are required here. With the decrease of the wire diameters, the distance between the wires, which is determined by the groove distance on the guide rollers, has to be reduced to maintain the same wafer thickness. It turned out, however, that the smaller distance of the wires can have the effect that neighboring wires are attracted to each other before they enter the ingot. This leads to different thicknesses of the wafers. Figure 26 shows an array of wafers and the sawing cuts in between in the normal case for a wire distance of 300 μm and for a distance of 250 μm. In the ﬁrst case, a uniform wafer thickness and kerf distance occur; in the second case, thickness and distance vary. It is assumed that the reason for this behavior is that neighboring wires become attracted to each other because of capillary forces before they enter the cutting channel. Numerical simulations have conﬁrmed that the slurry ﬁlm between the wires in the web can exert capillary forces, which are high enough to attract neighboring wires. Important for the effect are the slurry viscosity and the amount of slurry which is available: a high slurry ﬂow and a low viscosity (or temperature) are necessary to avoid the effect. With decreasing wire diameters and wafer thick- nesses, this problem will become more severe. Since the local bow and the distance of the wires in a wire web yield information about the local wire status, measurement methods have been developed to monitor the vertical and horizontal positions of the wires. This gives better control during a cut and allows to detect faults before the wire actually breaks. Such methods are however not established in industrial sawing machines. The characterization of structured and diamond-coated wires is more difﬁcult. In the ﬁrst case, one has to develop methods to specify the bends on the wires Fig. 26 Side view of wafers after a cut showing the wafer thickness and the distance or kerf width. The wafers are still ﬁxed to the beam on the top (not shown here). (a) Homogeneous cut for a wire distance of 300 μm, (b) varying thicknesses and distances for a wire distance of 250 μm because of wire pairing 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 389 regarding distance and direction. Since sawing with structured wires is industrially not widespread today, there are no systematic investigations available. This is different for diamond-coated wires which have attracted more interest. The impor- tant features are the abrasive particle distribution and the size or height on the surface. Depending on the ﬁxing method, the particles are more or less embedded. The cross section of such a wire shows some diamond particles which are partly covered in the coating layer (Fig. 27). In other cases the particles may protrude more out of the layer. The coating on the particles also wears off during the sawing, and the particles stick out higher. This changes the cutting performance. Consid- ering the scratching mechanism, one needs to specify the particle density and the height distribution of fresh and used wires. Optical investigations by confocal or scanning electron microscopy allow to obtain such information on small wire segments, but to screen larger areas or longer segments of a wire requires faster characterization methods in the future. Slurries and Coolants The role of the carrier ﬂuids in the wire cutting is quite complex as has been shown before and not fully understood. It is therefore also difﬁcult to determine which properties are important and have to be characterized well. In slurry-based sawing, PEG is the main carrier ﬂuid for the SiC powders, but oil is also good and has been used in the past. If PEG can be replaced by water mixed with additives is still under investigation. In ﬁxed abrasive sawing, either glycol-based ﬂuids mixed with water or water-based ﬂuids with additives are used. The optimum ﬂuid design remains a challenge for the future. Some aspects will be discussed next. Fig. 27 Scanning electron microscopy image of the cross section of a nickel-coated steel wire with embedded diamonds. The wire diameter is 120 μm 390 H. J. Möller SiC Slurries The main focus is on the viscosity, which is usually measured by conventional viscosimeters. Assuming a laminar ﬂow in the thin sawing channel, the ﬂuid velocity increases linearly from zero (at the crystal side) to the wire velocity (at the wire side). The corresponding shear rates are very high 105 s1 and several orders of magni- tude higher compared to the shear rates in standard viscosimeters. If one assumes that the slurry is a Newtonian ﬂuid, the viscosity is independent on the shear velocity (here equal to the wire velocity). This is the case for water and PEG, but the ﬂuid contains a high volume fraction of particles (SiC, Si) and may become a non-isotropic Newtonian ﬂuid. It could be shown however experimentally that the shear rates do not deviate much from the values measured at low rates in standard viscosimeters. The viscosity increases with the concentration of SiC and if the particles become ﬁner (Fig. 8) (Chap. 11, Wafer Processing). Before mixing carrier ﬂuid and SiC powder, the SiC needs to be well characterized regarding size distribution and shape. Several experimental techniques are available to measure the size distribution of powders, for instance, by laser diffraction. Commercial SiC powders are speciﬁed mainly by the center part of the size distribution. Typical parameters of todays SiC powders have been given in Table 1 in Chap. 11, Wafer Processing. Considering the particle interaction during sawing, only the largest particles in the distribution are indented. Their number is relatively small ( 1%) and difﬁcult to measure; therefore this part of the distribution is not speciﬁed separately. It is thus possible that a SiC powder is within the speciﬁcation but does not work properly because the size distribution of the larger particles differs. It is even more difﬁcult to characterize the essential particle features such as the shape and number of edges and tips of the SiC particle. This can only be done by direct observation in an optical or scanning electron microscope on a few particles (Fig. 28). Available commercial techniques for the characterization of a larger number of particles only allow to determine the deviation of the particle shape from the spherical shape (circularity). But this may not be sufﬁcient for a complete characterization. SiC is a polytypic material and can occur in many (up to 250) different crystal structures (Ramsdell 1945). The major ones are the cubic 3C and the hexagonal 4H and 6H structures. Commercial SiC powders mostly have more than 70% of the 6H structure, with different contributions of 4H and 3C. No systematic studies are available regarding which material composition has advantages here. In summary one must admit that some important properties of a SiC powder, such as particle shape and sharpness and large particle fraction and crystal structure, are not ade- quately speciﬁed. Therefore the wafer producer has to test a product regarding the sawing performance before using it in mass production. A polyethylene glycol is a chain molecule with a certain number of the ethylene glycol base structure. The commercial products are mixtures of molecules of differ- ent chain lengths from about 1 to 12. For instance, PEG 200 mainly has chain lengths 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 391 between 3 and 6. Depending on the composition of the mixtures, different viscosities are obtained. Oils are also mixtures of different components, but the composition of commercial products is usually not known exactly. Table 2 lists some of the viscosities of carrier ﬂuids that are used in the sawing process. During cutting with PEG, the composition of the mixture can change and the cutting performance degrade. Since in the slurry recycling process the original composition and viscosity have to be reestablished, one needs to determine the fraction of each component with a certain chain length and renew the original composition. PEG and SiC powders have to be thoroughly mixed before application. Which concentration is suitable has to be determined experimentally. The sawing rate is almost independent on the SiC concentration between 30 and 55 wt%, but the composition has an impact on the friction force (Fig. 29). Some studies have also shown that new SiC and PEG yield less friction compared to used material. Since most of the industrially used slurry is recycled, the friction forces do not vary that much. It is however clear that higher friction forces increase the energy consumption of the sawing machine, which is thus a cost factor. Another factor is the temperature dependence of the PEG slurry. With the increase of the temperature along the sawing channel, the viscosity decreases considerably because of its strong temperature dependence. Correspondingly the transportation capability for particles is reduced which can lead to the occurrence of saw marks (Chap. 11, Wafer Processing). One can reduce this effect either by using slurries Fig. 28 Scanning electron microscopy image of a SiC particle Table 2 Viscosities of carrier fluids at 20 C Fluid Viscosity [Pa s] PEG 200 0.07 PEG 300 0.09 Oil 0.060.2 Water 0.001 392 H. J. Möller with less temperature dependence or by reducing the friction, which is mainly responsible for the temperature increase. Other properties of the slurry, such as the water absorption tendency (hygroscopy) and the wetting of the wire, have also been investigated. PEG is hygroscopic and absorbs water over time. That changes the viscosity and wetting behavior. Hygroscopy plays a special role when the air humidity is high, such as in many Asian countries. Viscosity, friction, temperature dependence, hygroscopy, and wetting behavior depend on the properties of the carrier ﬂuid, the particle size distribution, and the volume fraction. In addition the recycling possibilities and the cost have to be considered. Because of these many parameters, the optimization of the slurry system is a difﬁcult task and requires comprehensive test series. This is mostly done internally in the industry, and the result is usually kept conﬁdential. But many effects and factors, which play a role, are certainly not completely understood. The sawing with structured wires and PEG slurry improves the particle transport but still requires the adjustment of the various slurry parameters. The replacement of PEG by water is possible, but it is cost-effective only when the additional cost of the necessary additives is lower. Water also has the drawback that it vaporizes quickly already inside of the sawing machine. The remaining SiC particles and Si debris can form a sludge, which can clog ﬁlters, tubes, and other critical parts of the sawing machine and requires regular, intensive cleaning. To some extent one can avoid this by modifying the ﬂuid supply system and spraying additional water inside of the machine. It may be however that water-based systems as carrier ﬂuid for SiC powders may be too difﬁcult to handle. Coolants In ﬁxed abrasive sawing, the particle load (mainly Si debris) is much lower here, and it becomes possible to use more water because of cost reasons. The main task of the ﬂuid system is to cool the ingot and wire and to remove the silicon debris, which tends to stick on the wire and reduce the sawing performance. Furthermore the ﬂuid Fig. 29 Measured friction forces as a function of the SiC concentration in a PEG 200/F800 slurry for different sawing conditions 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 393 should keep the submicron silicon particles dispersed considering recycling pro- cesses for the silicon saw dust, reduce metallic contamination of the wafers, and suppress the hydrogen formation. The drawback of the higher evaporation rate of water is not so severe compared to the water-based slurries, because the particle load is much lower. One certainly needs additives such as tensides and other chemicals to fulﬁll these requirements. The alternative is to use a glycol-based sawing ﬂuid mixed with water to control the viscosity. Both ﬂuid designs have pro and cons, and the impact on many properties such as wire lifetime, process stability, or wafer cleanness has not been comprehensively investigated. This development is still at the begin- ning, and one can expect many modiﬁcations in the future. Conclusion Apart from the cost of the wafering process, the quality of the wafers is equally important. A uniform thickness, a low total thickness variation (TTV) and rough- ness, a low subsurface damage, and a high surface cleanness are the requirements here. There are a number of wafer characterization methods available, but only TTV and thickness measurement methods are fast enough to use them inline. The investigation of SSD and wafer cleanness still requires sophisticated methods, which only allow a sampling of wafers to control or develop new sawing processes. Characterization methods for wires and ﬂuid systems are still less developed also because it is not always clear which param- eters are really essential. One can expect however that new or improved techniques will be developed here. The investigation of the individual micromechanical process by indentation and scratching experiments with single particles under controlled condition has been shown to be valuable and gives quantitative results. While a relatively good under- standing of the micromechanical details of the slurry-based sawing has been achieved, the ﬁxed abrasive sawing process is still less understood. Optimization of sawing processes with regard to the wafer quality is time- consuming because it depends on many parameters. Modeling the sawing process can be helpful here. A quantitative description of the sawing process is however a multi-scale problem, because one needs to combine the micromechanical processes of single particles (on the micrometer scale) with the interactions of thousands of particles under the wire and with the ﬂuid (on the meter scale). Although ﬁrst attempts have been presented here, this remains still a comprehensive task for the future. The sawing technique will see same some major and rapid changes over the next few years from loose abrasive to ﬁxed abrasive sawing and from PEG-based to water-based ﬂuids. Furthermore the wafers and wire will become thinner in the future. The challenges for maintaining or improving the wafer quality are thus high. There is however a good basis of understanding new characterization methods and an improved sawing machine technique available, which will allow to drive the multiwire wafering technique still much further. 394 H. J. Möller References O. Anspach, B. Hurka, K. Sunder, Solar Energy Materials and Solar Cells 131, 58 (2014) G.R. Anstis, P. Chantikul, B.R. Lawn, D.B. Marshall, J. Am. Ceram. Soc. 649, 533 (1981) A. Bidiville, K. Wasmer, R. Kraft, C. Ballif, Proceedings of 24th EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2009), p. 1400 A. Bidiville, K. Wasmer, J. Michler, P.M. Nasch, M. Van der Meer, C. Ballif, Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 18, 563 (2010) J.I. Bye, L. Norheim, B. Holme, Ø. Nielsen, S. Steinsvik, S.A. Jensen, G. Fragiacomo, I. Lombardi, Proceedings of 26th EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2011), p. 956 R. Chauhan, Y. Ahn, S. Chandrasekar, T. Farris, Wear 166, 246 (1993) C.P. Chen, M. Leipold, J. Am. Ceram. Soc. 59, 342 (1980) L.M. Cook, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 120, 152 (1990) V. Domnich, Y. Gogotsi, Rev. Adv. Mater. Sci. 3, 1 (2002) A.G. Evans, D.B. Marshall, Fund. of Friction and Wear (ASM, Metals Park, 1981), p. 441 C. Funke, E. Kullig, M. Kuna, H.J. Möller, Adv. Eng. Mater. 6, 594 (2004) R. Gassilloud, C. Ballif, P. Gasser, G. Buerki, J. Michler, Phys. Status Solidi (a) 202(15), 2858 (2005) H.D. Geiler, H. Karge, M. Wagner, St. Eichler, M. Jurisch, U. Kretzer, M. Scheffer-Czygan, Mater. Sci. Semicond. Process. 9, 345 (2006) Y. Gogotsi, C. Baek, F. Kirscht, Semicond. Sci. Technol. 14, 936 (1999) M. Hamblin, G. Stachowiak, Wear 190, 237 (1995) A. Holt, A. Thøgersen, C. Rohr, J.-I. Bye, G. Helgesen, Ø. Nordseth, S.A. Jensen, L. Norheim, Ø. Nielsen, Proceedings of 25th EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2010), p. 1617 ITRP, International Technology Roadmap for Photovoltaic, SEMI Europe Photovoltaics Group, (2016), http://itrpv.net J. Jang, M.J. Lance, S. Wen, Acta Mater. 53, 1759 (2005) B. Lawn, Fracture of Brittle Solids (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1993) H. Li, R. Bradt, J. Mater. Sci. 31, 1065 (1996) T. Li, P. Ge, W. Bi, Y. Gao, Mat. Sci. in Semi. Processing 66, 53 (2016) D. Meißner, St. Schönfelder, B. Hurka, J. Zeh, K. Sunder, R. Köpge, T. Wagner, A. Grün, H. Hagel, H.J. Möller, H. Schwabe, O. Anspach, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 120, 346 (2014) H. J. Möller, in Crystal Growth Technology, ed. by H. J. Scheel and P. Capper (Wiley - VCH Weinheim, 2008) p. 457 H. J. Möller, Handbook of Crystal Growth, vol. 2, 2nd edn.(Elsevier, 2014). Chapter 18 H. J. Möller, C. Funke, in Freiberger Forschungshefte B, ed. by H.J. Möller, G. Roewer (TU Bergakademie Freiberg, Freiberg, 2003), p. 230 H.J. Möller, S. Würzner, R. Buchwald, M. Herms, M. Wagner, Solid State Phenom. 242, 466 (2016) T. Orellana Pérez, C. Schmid, S. Riepe, H.J. Möller, S. Reber, Proceedings of 24th European PVSEC (WIP, München, 2009), p. 1228 T. Orellana Pérez, E. M. Tejado, C. Funke, S. Riepe, J. Y. Pastor, H. J. Möller, J. Mat. Science (2014). https://doi.org/10.1007/s10853-014-8192-5 C. Poon, B. Bushan, Wear 190(76) (1995) L.S. Ramsdell, Am. Mineral. 32, 64 (1945) M. Verspui, G. de With, P. van der Varst, M. Buijs, Wear 188, 102 (1995) T. Wagner, T. Behm, R. Rietzschel, S. Kaminski, C. Funke, H.J. Möller, Proceedings of 25th EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2010), p. 1267 S. Würzner, R. Buchwald, S. Retsch, H.J. Möller, Proceedings of 29th EU PVSEC (WIP, München, 2014a), p. 742 S. Würzner, R. Buchwald, H.J. Möller, Phys. Status Solidi C 128, 1119 (2014b) S. Würzner, A. Falke, R. Buchwald, H.J. Möller, Energy Procedia 77, 881 (2015) S. Würzner, M. Herms, T. Kaden, H. J. Möller, M. Wagner, Energies 10, 414 (2017) J. Yan, T. Asami, T. Kuriyagawa, Precis. Eng. 32, 186 (2008) 13 Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials 395 Part IV Impurity and Defect in Crystalline Silicon Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 14 G. Kissinger Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 400 Basic Features and Measurement of Interstitial Oxygen in Silicon ............................ 401 Diffusivity and Solubility .................................................................... 401 Measurement of Interstitial Oxygen Concentration ......................................... 402 Oxygen Dimers .............................................................................. 403 Interstitial Oxygen in Solar Silicon Materials ............................................... 404 Thermal Donors ................................................................................. 405 Nature and Types of Thermal Donors ....................................................... 405 Detection and Measurement of Thermal Donors ........................................... 407 The Effect of Thermal Donors on the Lifetime of Charge Carriers ........................ 408 The Role of Thermal Donors and New Donors in Solar Cell Manufacturing ............. 409 Oxygen Precipitation ............................................................................ 411 Detection of Oxide Precipitates ............................................................. 411 Nucleation of Oxide Precipitates ............................................................ 413 Nucleation Curves ........................................................................... 416 Numerical Simulation of Oxygen Precipitation ............................................. 417 Vacancy Concentration in Solar Silicon ..................................................... 419 Interaction of Vacancies and Oxygen in Silicon ............................................ 421 Effect of Oxide Precipitates on the Lifetime of Charge Carriers ........................... 423 Effect of Oxygen Precipitation on the Performance of Solar Cells ........................ 426 Interaction of Oxygen with Dopants and Other Impurities ..................................... 429 Interaction with Carbon ...................................................................... 429 Interaction with Nitrogen .................................................................... 431 Interaction with Boron ....................................................................... 431 Interaction with Hydrogen ................................................................... 432 Conclusion ....................................................................................... 432 Cross-References ................................................................................ 433 References ....................................................................................... 433 G. Kissinger (*) IHP  Leibniz-Institut für innovative Mikroelektronik, Frankfurt (Oder), Germany e-mail: gkissinger@ihp-microelectronics.com  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_20 399 Abstract Oxygen belongs to the most important impurities in many types of solar silicon. Interstitial oxygen is already incorporated in a supersaturated state during crystal growth. Subsequent thermal treatment during solar cell manufacturing leads to its precipitation which degrades the lifetime of minority carriers in solar cell material and also the solar cell efﬁciency. Oxide precipitate nuclei are formed already during crystal cooling. A special form of oxygen precipitation is the generation of thermal donors which enhance the free carrier concentration and in this way degrade the lifetime of minority carriers. Controlling of oxygen precipitation for optimization of solar cell efﬁciency involves controlling of all important factors affecting the nucleation and growth of oxygen-related defects. Therefore, this chapter deals with the basic understanding of oxygen precipitation and thermal donor formation, its characterization and measurement, and its impact on solar cell material and solar cell performance. The interaction of intrinsic point defects, light elements, and dopants with oxygen and its impact on precipitation is also discussed. Keywords Czochralski silicon  Multi-crystalline silicon  Interstitial oxygen  Vacancy  Self-interstitial  Oxide precipitate  Thermal donor  Lifetime  Nucleation Introduction Oxygen is one of the most harmful impurities in solar silicon because oxygen-related defects degrade the minority carrier lifetime and also the solar cell efﬁciency. In many types of solar silicon, it is already incorporated in a supersaturated state during crystal growth. Controlling of oxygen-related defect formation for optimization of solar cell efﬁciency involves controlling of all important factors affecting the nucleation and growth of these defects during crystal pulling as well as during solar cell fabrication. Oxygen-related defect formation is a ﬁeld which is important since decades for microelectronic manufacturing because such devices are also degraded by oxygen- related defects. Therefore, a lot of knowledge exists which can be applied in the ﬁeld of material optimization for solar cells. However, the strategies of defect engineering in microelectronics and photovoltaics are different because of the different device architecture. This means that the knowledge needs to be adapted for the special needs of solar cell devices and their manufacturing process. In the ﬁrst section of this chapter, the basic features of interstitial oxygen in silicon will be explained. Diffusivity and solubility are basic for its role in diffusion- limited solid-state reactions of defect formation. There are varieties of solar cell materials with different content of interstitial oxygen. The characteristics of these materials with respect to interstitial oxygen and the measurement are also described in this section. 400 G. Kissinger One of the two main oxygen-related defect types, the thermal donors, is the subject of the second section. They are known to degrade the lifetime of solar material. Their nature, types, and methods of detection are described as well as their role in solar cell manufacturing. The second defect type, the oxide precipitates, is described comprehensively in the third section including methods of their detection. Understanding of oxide precipitate nucleation and the role of intrinsic point defects therein are important for efﬁciently controlling of oxygen precipitation. Special attention is also paid to the effect of oxide precipitates on the lifetime of charge carriers and on the performance of solar cells. Because oxygen is not the only impurity in solar-grade silicon, it is important to consider also its interaction with other nonmetallic impurities and dopants with respect to defect formation. Most important is the interaction with carbon as a nucleation center for oxygen precipitation. In the last section, the interaction of oxygen with carbon, nitrogen, boron, and hydrogen is elucidated. Basic Features and Measurement of Interstitial Oxygen in Silicon Diffusivity and Solubility Important basic features are solubility Ceq Oi and diffusivity DOi of interstitial oxygen (Oi) which are needed to describe the kinetics of oxygen out-diffusion, precipitation, and formation of complexes between dopants and other impurities with oxygen. The most widely accepted equations for the temperature-dependent solubility and diffusivity of interstitial oxygen in silicon were published by Mikkelsen (1986). These are Ceq Oi T ð Þ ¼ 9  1022exp 1:52eV kT   cm3 (1) and DOi T ð Þ ¼ 0:13exp 2:53eV kT   cm2s1 (2) with k being Boltzmanns constant. As can be deduced from the high migration energy, interstitial oxygen diffuses slowly compared to metals and intrinsic point defects. Figure 1 shows the solubility as a function of the temperature together with oxygen concentrations typical for Czochralski silicon using the new ASTM standard. The meaning of the standards is explained in the next section. It can be seen that for common temperatures of solar cell processing, the interstitial oxygen is always supersaturated even for low oxygen concentration. 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 401 Measurement of Interstitial Oxygen Concentration Usually, Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) is used to measure the concentration of interstitial oxygen (see, e.g., Borghesi et al. 1995). In Fig. 2, a typical absorption spectrum of interstitial oxygen in silicon is shown. It was recorded at room temperature in the wave number range from 400 to 1800 cm1. As a reference material, usually FZ-Si of the same thickness and resistivity is used. In order to determine the concentration of interstitial oxygen, the absorbance A at the peak position of the main absorption band at 1106 cm1 is determined from the incident radiant power I0 and the transmitted radiant power I as follows: Fig. 1 Solubility of interstitial oxygen plotted as a function of temperature given in new ASTM standard (Mikkelsen 1986). The hatched area marks the concentration of interstitial oxygen typical for Czochralski silicon, and the dashed lines indicate the onset of supersaturation for decreasing temperature. (Reprinted with permission from Kissinger (2015). Copyright 2015, Springer Nature) Fig. 2 Typical absorption spectrum of interstitial oxygen in silicon recorded at room temperature in the wave number range from 400 to 1800 cm1. (Reprinted with permission from Kissinger (2015). Copyright 2015, Springer Nature) 402 G. Kissinger A ¼ ln I0 I   : (3) Knowing the thickness of the sample d, the absorption coefﬁcient α with α ¼ A d ¼ 1 d ln I0 I   (4) is calculated. Then, the Oi concentration is obtained from the absorption coefﬁcient of the main absorption band at 1106 cm1 via multiplication with a conversion factor. However, several conversion factors exist. They can be found in Table 1. Nowadays, the IOC-88 factor is regarded as the most accurate one, but all conversion factors are still in use. Because the factors differ markedly, it is very important to provide the conversion factor in connection with a concentration of interstitial oxygen measured by FTIR. Otherwise the value would be useless. Oxygen Dimers The oxygen dimers O2i are known to diffuse faster than interstitial oxygen Oi (Ǻberg et al. 1998). Their concentration is in the range of a few 1015 cm3 (Kissinger et al. 2010). With respect to the total oxygen concentration, their part is negligible, but they become important for the oxygen diffusivity at temperatures below 700 C because then their transport capacity exceeds the transport capacity of interstitial oxygen. This leads to an enhanced effective diffusion of oxygen below 700 C. Theoretical models of the diffusion path of the dimer are in good agreement with the experiments (Snyder et al. 1988; Ramamoorthy and Pantelides 1998). The higher effective diffusivity results in deeper out-diffusion of oxygen in the temperature range below 700 C than it would be expected from the interstitial oxygen diffusivity extrapolated from high-temperature diffusivities (Lee et al. 1988; McQuaid et al. 1999; Mikkelsen 1986). It also results in a higher growth rate of oxide precipitates below 700 C (Takeno et al. 1998). The concentration of oxygen dimers can be also measured by FTIR at room temperature using the peak amplitudes of the absorption bands at 1013 cm1 and Table 1 Conversion factors for measurement of the concentration of interstitial oxygen by FTIR at room temperature Conversion factor Source Short name 2.45  1017 cm2 ASTM F 121-83 New ASTM 2.45  1017 cm2 DIN 50 438/1 DIN 3.03  1017 cm2 JEIDA JEIDA 4.81  1017 cm2 ASTM F 121-79 Old ASTM 3.14  1017 cm2 ASTM F 1188-88 IOC-88 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 403 1062 cm1. For this purpose, a conversion factor of 7.3  1016 cm2 should be used (Quemener et al. 2014). Interstitial Oxygen in Solar Silicon Materials The monocrystalline Czochralski silicon (CZ-Si) is the basic material of electronic devices since decades. It is also one of the most promising materials for solar applications. However for cost reasons, the purity of the feedstock for solar appli- cations is often lower. Oxygen is incorporated in the interstitial form during crystal pulling as the result of the partial dissolution of the walls of the quartz crucible which contains the molten silicon. Typical oxygen concentrations lay in the range of 10171018 cm3 (new ASTM). During pulling oxygen segregates to the solid leading to a decrease of the concentration of interstitial oxygen toward the tail end of the CZ-Si ingots. By controlling of the gas ﬂow, crucible rotation, and temperature, the oxygen concentration of the ingot can be reduced (Arnberg et al. 2012). By mag- netically conﬁned Czochralski (MCZ) growth, the oxygen content of the silicon material can be kept very low. Such material was already used successfully for high efﬁciency solar cells (Zhao et al. 1999). Float zone silicon (FZ-Si) is a very pure material which is only used for high-end products because it is more expensive. The interstitial oxygen concentration of FZ-Si is usually below the detection limit of 1016 cm3. Solar cells with very high efﬁciencies can be fabricated with FZ-Si (Zhao et al. 1999). Multi-crystalline silicon (mc-Si) is the main material for solar cell production. The dominant crystallization technique is directional solidiﬁcation in Bridgman/ vertical gradient freeze (VGF) furnaces (Arnberg et al. 2012). The melt is located in nitride-coated quartz crucibles. Older methods of fabrication of the coating resulted in oxidation of the coating which has led to high oxygen contamination of the silicon melt. Nowadays nitride-coated crucibles with low oxygen content of the nitride coating are available; however, nitrogen from the crucible and carbon from the graphite parts can still lead to high nitrogen and carbon concentrations in the melt and thus in the silicon (Arnberg et al. 2012). Usually, an oxygen proﬁle can be found in mc-Si blocks with the oxygen concentration decreasing into the growth direction as the result of evaporation from the melt and segregation (Xi et al. 2007; Miyamura et al. 2015). Continuous electromagnetic casting is a method which uses an electromagnetic ﬁeld to melt the continuously fed silicon in a cold crucible. By this method both oxygen and carbon concentrations remain low because there is no contact between silicon and the crucible (Kaneko et al. 2006). Ribbon technologies are direct wafer crystallization processes like edge-deﬁned- ﬁlm-fed (EFG) grown silicon or string ribbon (SR) silicon. These materials can be fabricated with a high productivity, but they have a higher density of defects than directional solidiﬁed mc-Si. EFG-Si has a high carbon concentration, but the oxygen concentration in both EFG-Si and SR-Si is low (Arnberg et al. 2012). 404 G. Kissinger Thermal Donors Nature and Types of Thermal Donors The nature of thermal donors and their impact on the resistivity of silicon was debated extensively beginning end of the 1950s (Fuller and Logan 1957). It is well established now that heat treatments in the 350500 C temperature range generate shallow double-donor centers, so-called thermal donors (TDs). These are double donors with ionization energies of about 70 and 150 meV (Wruck and Gaworzewski 1979; Benton et al. 1983). They can be easily eliminated by thermal treatments above 500 C, thus stabilizing the resistivity (Fuller and Logan 1957; Stein et al. 1986; Tokuda et al. 1989). It is also well accepted now that TDs consist of chains of only oxygen atoms. There is a whole family of TDs named TD1TD16 which contain a different number of oxygen atoms increasing with their numbering (Wagner und Hage 1989; Götz et al. 1992). They evolve sequentially by attachment of oxygen atoms. The double-donor character of the chains is due to two trifold bonded oxygen atoms involved in the chains (Pesola et al. 2000; Coutinho et al. 2001; Torres et al. 2006). In Fig. 3, the structure of an O6 chain with (left) and without (right) a thermal double donor is compared. While in the left structure, the oxygen atoms only bridge ﬁrst neighbor silicon atoms in the second structure, two oxygen atoms also bridge second neighbor silicon atoms. A different type of donor states, so-called new donors (NDs), is observed upon annealing in the temperature range 600900 C with a maximum generation rate at 800 C. Their ionization energy varies between 30 and 120 meV (Schmalz and Gaworzewski 1981). They are more difﬁcult to cure than TDs, and their annihilation requires temperatures above 1000 C. Pensl et al. explain the origin of the NDs by a SiOx interface model (Pensl et al. 1989). They demonstrated that a correlation exists between the formation and annihilation kinetics of NDs and oxygen precipitates. In Fig. 4, the model is illustrated. Pensl et al. assume that two types of states contribute to the continuous distribution of energy states. The ﬁrst type are interface states at the surface of oxygen precipitates in the entire range of measured trap states, and the second type are bound states in the Coulombic wells of ﬁxed positive charges residing in the oxygen precipitate. These are limited to shallow states, e.g., 250 meV below Fig. 3 Atomistic picture for the ground-state structure of O1NN 6 (left) and O2NN 6 (right) (Torres et al. 2006). Atomistic picture for the ground-state structure of an O6 chain (left) and a thermal double donor consisting of six oxygen atoms (right). (Reprinted from Torres et al. (2006). Copyright 2006, with permission from Elsevier) 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 405 conduction band edge. Experimental evidence for both types of energy states was provided by hydrogen passivation of NDs. The interface states at the surface of oxide precipitates were completely passivated, but the ﬁxed positive charge in the oxide and thus also the bound states in the Coulombic wells remained unaffected or just slightly affected by the hydrogenation (Pensl et al. 1989). The donor generation rate depends on the oxygen concentration of the material. Figure 5 shows the donor generation rate for different concentrations of interstitial oxygen in moderately B-doped material with an initial resistivity of 1219 Ωcm (Cazcarra and Zunino 1980). Here, the two peaks related to TDs and NDs are clearly seen. All TD species possess a temperature- and oxygen-dependent equilibrium concentration which they reach after a certain time of annealing (Wagner and Hage 1989). Wijaranakula developed a kinetic model which describes the reduction of inter- stitial oxygen and the formation kinetics of TDs during a TD anneal by the following analytic solution COi tð Þ ¼ C0 Oi1 þ 2 3 DOitC0 Oi2=3  3=2 (5) CTD tð Þ ¼ kt C0 Oi1 þ 2 3 DOitC0 Oi2=3  3=2 ( )c t1:02 (6) with C0 Oi being the initial concentration of interstitial oxygen, c = 3.44, and kt = 4.61  1052 (Wijaranakula 1991). It should be noted that the interstitial oxygen concentration is based upon the calibration factor of 2.45  1017 cm2 here. fixed positive charge interface states metal silicon bound states SiOx-precipitates EC,SiOx EV,SiOx EC,Si ED EF EV,Si EF Fig. 4 Schematic of the Si-SiOx (precipitate) band structure illustrating the SiOx Interface Model for oxygen- related ND defects in silicon according to Pensl et al. (1989). (Reprinted with permission from Pensl et al. (1989). Copyright 1989, Springer Nature) 406 G. Kissinger It was also found that high interstitial concentrations increase the formation of TDs (Voronkov et al. 2000, 2008) and high vacancy concentrations delay their formation (Tajima et al. 1994). Furthermore, rodlike defects and NDs are anti- correlated because the precipitation of silicon self-interstitials into rodlike defects, consisting of line-shaped interstitial agglomerates, reduces the ND concentration (Kot et al. 2013). Generation of TDs by thermal pre-treatments was found to increase the generation of NDs (Cadeo et al. 1999; Tokuda et al. 1991). Detection and Measurement of Thermal Donors FTIR spectrometry is most suitable to investigate the different TD species from TD1 to TD16. The location of the infrared absorption bands and the experimental binding energies for TD1TD11 (neutral and singly ionized states) and TD12TD16 (neutral state) are known (Wagner and Hage 1989; Götz et al. 1992). The NDs do not seem to have special FTIR lines because they are related to oxygen precipitates. It was also found that the ﬁrst three TD species TD0TD2 are bistable defects with negative U properties (Markevich et al. 2018). They can exist in two conﬁgu- rations with very different electronic properties. In one conﬁguration the defect is a deep donor and in the other it has two shallow levels. The total concentration of TDs can be measured by four-point-probe measure- ments of the resistivity at room temperature. The measurement procedure is stan- dardized (DIN 50431, ASTM F-84-73, ASTM F723-82). The conversion of the resistivity to the total TD concentration is based on the assumption that the TDs are the dominant donors in the samples and that all the TDs are fully ionized at room 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 300 500 ANNEALING TEMPERATURE (C) DONOR GENERATION RATE (1014 cm3 h1) 700 900 Fig. 5 Donor generation rate as a function of annealing temperature for different initial concentrations of interstitial oxygen: 1  1018 cm3 (empty circles), 9.25  1017 cm3 (triangles), 8  1017 cm3 (squares), and 6  1017 cm3 (full circles) according to Cazcarra and Zunino (1980). (Reproduced from Cazcarra and Zunino (1980), with the permission of AIP Publishing) 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 407 temperature. For the determination of the TD concentration from the resistivity measurements, it has to be taken into account that TDs are double-donor centers (Clayborn and Newman 1988). Therefore, the electron concentration equals twice the TD concentration. TDs can be also detected by DLTS in n-type silicon. A peak can be found around 55 K. This peak shifts with increasing annealing time at 450 C and increases in height (Tokuda et al. 1989). This means that the energy levels become shallower during the formation of larger clusters. A new method for TD mapping was proposed by Hu et al. (2012). They extracted a map of the thermal donor concentration with high resolution from free carrier density imaging of n-type silicon wafers before and after TD formation. The interstitial oxygen concentration can also be extracted if the model of Wijanarakula (1991), described in the previous section, is applied in connection with the method. Oxygen striations could be clearly visualized by this mapping technique. The Effect of Thermal Donors on the Lifetime of Charge Carriers Now the question arises if TDs and NDs can act as recombination centers for charge carriers. About the effect of NDs, we will report in the section on oxygen precipi- tation because these donors are strongly related to oxide precipitates. Several papers reported that the degraded lifetime of silicon materials for solar cells is strongly connected with the increasing density of TDs (see, e.g., Karg et al. 2000; Hu et al. 2012; Tomassini et al. 2016). Richter et al. investigated the impact of carrier concentration on carrier lifetime for n-type and p-type silicon (Richter et al. 2012). They used their own results and results from other authors but all obtained on FZ-Si, a material with extremely low oxygen concentration as shown in Fig. 6. They found that for dopant concentrations 1015 cm3, the measured values follow a nearly straight line, and the lifetime is mainly determined by radiative and Auger recombination. For dopant concentrations 1015 cm3, the measured lifetime values remain signiﬁcantly below the Coulomb- enhanced Auger recombination straight line. This cannot be explained by intrinsic recombination processes but is typical for Shockley-Read-Hall recombination, and it can be assumed that the maximum measured effective lifetime of these samples is either dominated by surface or bulk recombination or a combination of both, but not by radiative or Auger recombination (Richter et al. 2012). Recently, in a special experiment, Miyamura et al. elucidated the effect of thermal donors on the lifetime of CZ-Si crystals (Miyamura et al. 2018). They have grown two similar n-type silicon crystals with different cooling cycles resulting in different concentrations of TDs, one with 6  1013 cm3 TDs and one without TDs. Bulk lifetimes of both crystals were in the range 1518 μs. The lifetimes of the donor concentrations of both crystals ﬁt very well to Fig. 6, and they concluded that although thermal donors act as defects that increase the donor concentration, they do not act as recombination centers of carriers. The TD concentrations of Hu et al. which are 6  1014 cm3 exhibit a correlation with the inverse lifetime, and for 408 G. Kissinger TD concentrations 6  1014 cm3, no inﬂuence of TD concentration on the lifetime was observed both as it would be expected from the curves in Fig. 6 (Hu et al. 2012). Also Tomassini et al. reported a decreasing lifetime with increasing TD concentration only for TD concentrations 510  1014 cm3 (Tomassini et al. 2016). Markevich et al. investigated in a comprehensive study the impact of the bistable TDs on the lifetime of minority carriers. They found that they can be considered as minority carrier trapping centers in n-type CZ-Si but not as effective recombination center (Markevich et al. 2018). The Role of Thermal Donors and New Donors in Solar Cell Manufacturing Both Häßler et al. and Karg et al. have shown that that TDs can form during the slow ramp down of mc-Si manufacturing (Häßler et al. 2000; Karg et al. 2000). Their concentration depends on the oxygen concentration, and consequently the highest concentration of TDs was found in the bottom region of the ingots where the oxygen concentration is highest. In Fig. 7, transmittance spectra recorded on n-type mc-Si cut from different depths of a block-casted ingot can be seen. The absorption bands of six different types of TDs demonstrate that their concentration decreases with decreasing distance from the ingot bottom. It was also found that the effective lifetime of the charge carries in the silicon material from the bottom region is reduced Fig. 6 Maximum effective lifetime as a function of the dopant concentration measured at 300 K on p-type (left) and n-type (right) silicon, together with literature data. The data are compared to the results of a model for the effective lifetime from Richter et al. (black dashed lines) and other works. (Reprinted with permission from Richter et al. (2012). Copyright 2012 by the American Physical Society) 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 409 compared to the material from the middle part. However, surprisingly the solar cells fabricated on material from the bottom region did not reveal signiﬁcant degradation compared to solar cells on material from the middle part of the ingot. Their average cell efﬁciency was the same. The reason lies in the solar cell manufacturing process itself where annealing steps 600 C just for several minutes are sufﬁcient to annihilate the TDs (Häßler et al. 2000; Karg et al. 2000). However, it also has to be pointed out that the typical temperatures of solar cell manufacturing being in the range of 600900 C would let the NDs become the main efﬁciency relevant donor defects (Häßler et al. 2000). Because their disso- lution is much more difﬁcult and requires very high temperatures (Cazcarra and Zunino 1980), the reduction of the oxygen concentration of the material would be the best way to increase the solar cell efﬁciency. Another way to inﬂuence ND formation is the ramp optimization as it was demonstrated for ribbon grown on substrate (RGS) silicon which has a very high oxygen concentration (2  1018 cm3). At usual solar cell processing, a rapid formation of new donors takes place because the oxygen precipitates. An increase of solar cell efﬁciencies was possible in two ways, via the intentional formation of large oxide precipitates at temper- atures above 1000 C or via rapid cooling scenarios together with RTP (rapid thermal processing) techniques in order to keep the oxygen impurity atoms on interstitial sites of the silicon lattice throughout solar cell fabrication (Häßler et al. 2000). Fig. 7 Low-temperature (T = 8 K) infrared transmittance spectra taken from different distances (1, 5, and 9 mm) from the ingot bottom of a specially fabricated n-type multi-crystalline ingot. The absorption lines observed are identiﬁed as electronic transitions from the ground state into effective mass-like excited states of six different neutral donor species TD1TD6. Obviously, the TD concentration is decreasing with decreasing distance from the bottom. The absorption line denoted by Oi is due to a vibrational absorption of oxygen on interstitial lattice sites. (Reproduced from Häßler et al. (2000). Copyright 2000, with permission from Elsevier) 410 G. Kissinger Oxygen Precipitation Detection of Oxide Precipitates The most common method used for detection of oxide precipitates is preferential etching. For (100) oriented wafers, often a (110) cleavage plane perpendicular to the surface is used because then it is possible to study depth proﬁles of oxide precipitate densities. This is useful because during thermal processing interstitial oxygen can diffuse out and the density of etch pits measured by etching the surface of a wafer is different from the density in the bulk. It can also happen that oxide or nitride layers on the surface decrease or increase, respectively, the density of oxide precipitates below the surface (Kissinger et al. 2017). An overview of suitable preferential etchants can be found elsewhere (Kissinger 2015). Infrared laser scattering tomography is also a frequently used method to detect oxide precipitates and other grown in defects in silicon (Furukawa and Furuya 1995). It is based on the principle of ultramicroscopy. An infrared laser beam is injected and scanned parallel to the surface of the sample, and the light scattered by the defects is observed by an optical microscope with CCD camera perpendicular to the surface of the sample. In this way defects being much smaller than the resolution of the microscope can be detected. However, if the defect density exceeds a few 1010 cm3, the light scattering defects cannot be distinguished anymore. Depth proﬁles of oxide precipitate density as well as plan views in different depths are possible with IR-LST. While preferential etching and infrared laser scattering tomography (IR-LST) have a relatively high detection limit with about 2040 nm, transmission electron microscopy (TEM) can detect very small oxide precipitates. An example is given in Fig. 8, where the size evolution of oxide precipitates during annealing at 1000 C is demonstrated. The results were obtained with a scanning TEM (STEM). One has to be careful about the detection limit by TEM. TEM allows the observation of defects down to atomic resolution. However, this does not automatically mean that all these tiny defects can be found because at low magniﬁcation they remain undetectable. Only step-by-step investigation with a well-focused beam and very high magniﬁca- tion in addition to a sufﬁciently high density of defects will be crowned with success. Modern TEM methods like STEM are much more suitable for investigation of very small oxide precipitates like the one used to obtain the results in Fig. 8. In most cases, the density of oxide precipitates observed in silicon with medium oxygen concentration after thermal treatment by STEM is at least one order of magnitude higher than the density observed by preferential etching or IR-LST (Kot et al. 2017). Both Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) and photoluminescence (PL) are powerful techniques to study oxygen, its complexes, and precipitates as well as carbon and its complexes in silicon (Binetti et al. 2014). In addition to these, dopants and extended defects can be detected by at least one of these techniques and provide valuable information about their interaction with oxygen and its defects. 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 411 The infrared absorption bands of oxygen precipitates in silicon are located in the spectral range from 1000 to 1300 cm1. Their exact position strongly depends on their geometry and stoichiometry (Hu 1980; Borghesi et al. 1992). The absorption bands of oxygen precipitates can be theoretically described by assuming a spheroidal geometry and applying effective medium theory (Hu 1980; Borghesi et al. 1992). Usually, two characteristic broad bands at 1095 cm1 and at 1225 cm1 can be observed which belong to spherical and plate-like precipitates, respectively (Hallberg and Lindström 1992; Sassella et al. 1999; Borghesi et al. 2000). Dendritic oxygen precipitates possess a broad absorption band at 1040 cm1 (Kot et al. 2014). Pivac et al. investigated segregation of oxygen to structural defects in EFG silicon by FTIR (Pivac et al. 1996). They observed broad absorption bands in the range from 980 to 1100 cm1. Oxide precipitates can be also investigated by photoluminescence (PL). Tajima et al. assigned the line being at 0.820 eV from 77 to 150 K and at 0.768 eVat 300 K, labeled as Db line, to oxide precipitates (Tajima et al. 1991). It is the same energy range were the D-lines D1 and D2 assigned to dislocations are located. Tajimas results were conﬁrmed by several further investigations (Pizzini et al. 2000; Binetti et al. 2002). In PL intensity maps collected at room temperature around small angle Fig. 8 Normalized size distributions of oxygen precipitates determined by STEM. (Reprinted with permission from Kot et al. (2017). Copyright 2017, Wiley) 412 G. Kissinger grain boundaries, it was possible to distinguish between emissions related to oxide precipitates and dislocation (Tajima et al. 2012; Kato et al. 2014). Temperature-dependent PL was also successfully applied during the analysis of defects in striations of n-type solar-grade CZ-Si (Le Donne et al. 2016). In regions with striations, the emission at 0.87 eV was found at 110 K, and in regions without striations, it was absent. It was concluded that the defects responsible for the occurrence of striations are oxide precipitate nuclei. Nucleation of Oxide Precipitates Classical nucleation theory is the simplest way to describe nucleation of oxygen precipitates and to understand the impact of different parameters. Oxygen precipitates in the form of amorphous SiOx (x = 12) particles. For simplicity, they are assumed to be spherical. Precipitates would be always compressively strained because the density of a certain amount of silicon atoms before being oxidized is nearly double as high as the density after oxidation. However, there are mechanisms to relieve the stain. One possibility is the ejection of silicon self-interstitials I from the precipitate/matrix interface which diffuse away or aggregate by forming secondary defects like extrinsic stacking faults or punched out dislocation loops. Another possibility for strain relieve is the absorption of silicon lattice vacancies V by the precipitate. Accordingly, the general equilibrium reaction of oxygen precipitation can be formulated as follows: Pn þ 1 x þ γ   Si þ O þ βV $ Pnþ1 þ γI þ strain energy (7) where Pn and Pn+1 are precipitates containing n and n + 1 oxygen atoms, respec- tively, γ is the number of interstitials ejected, and β is the number of vacancies absorbed both per precipitated oxygen atom. From the equilibrium reaction, it can be concluded that oxygen precipitation is enhanced under vacancy supersaturation and is retarded by interstitial supersaturation. Vacancy supersaturation can be generated, e.g., by rapid thermal annealing (RTA) at temperatures above 1150 C or below silicon nitride layers, whereas oxidation of silicon leads to the supersaturation of self-interstitials below the oxide layer. It also has to be taken into account that the precipitation of interstitial oxygen itself can cause a supersaturation of interstitials in bulk regions and thus retard precipitation. The total free energy of formation of a spherical precipitate nucleus ΔGsphere hom consisting of n oxygen atoms contains three major contributions. These are the free energy of formation of the precipitated oxide phase ΔGv, the free energy necessary to create the new interface of the sphere with the silicon matrix ΔGsphere σ , and the elastic strain energy ΔGsphere e caused by the volume deﬁciency between the spherical silicon cavity and the volume of the precipitated oxide phase. A temperature dependence of the elastic moduli and of different thermal expansion is neglected. Most classical 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 413 considerations of nucleation follow this approach. The total free energy can be obtained then: ΔGsphere hom ¼ ΔGv þ ΔGsphere σ þ ΔGsphere e with ΔGv ¼ nkTln COi Ceq Oi  CV Ceq V  β Ceq I CI  γ  # , ΔGsphere σ ¼ 36π ð Þ 1 3Ωpn x  2 3 σ1 þ δ 1 þ e  2 , and ΔGsphere e ¼ Ωpn x   6μδe1 þ δ ð Þ3 (8) Here Ceq denotes the equilibrium concentrations and C the concentrations of vacancies, interstitials, and interstitial oxygen as indicated by V, I, and Oi, respec- tively. The strain energy according to Nabarro et al. (Nabarro and Wills 1940) was used here with a correction factor respecting the volume misﬁt because it originally refers to the volume of the cavity in the matrix. The misﬁt δ and the strain e are δ ¼ ΩSiOx ΩSi 1 þ β þ γ ð Þ ½   1 3  1 and e ¼ δ 1 þ 4μ 3K   (9) with ΩSi = 2  1023 cm3. Typical values for the molecular volumes of oxygen precipitates ΩSiOx applied are 3.448  1023 cm3 for SiO and 4.348  1023 cm3 for unstrained SiO2 (Vanhellemont 1995). For the calculation of the strain, the shear modulus μ of silicon (6.41  1010 Pa) and the bulk modulus K of the precipitate (3.47  1010 Pa) are needed. Because the interface energy σ cannot be measured, it is often used as a ﬁt parameter when the model is adjusted to experimental data. Typical values of the surface energy reported are in the range of 105 J/cm2 (Zschorsch et al. 2004). The number of oxygen atoms in a critical nucleus ncrit can be obtained by setting the ﬁrst derivative of dΔG/dn to zero. This leads to ncrit ¼ 32πxσ3 3Ωp   1 þ δ 1 þ e  6  kTx Ωp ln COi Ceq Oi  CV Ceq V !β Ceq I CI  γ 2 4 3 5  6μδe1 þ δ ð Þ3 8  : 9 = ; 3 (10) Boltzmanns statistics gives the thermodynamic equilibrium concentration of oxide precipitate nuclei of critical size Ncrit: 414 G. Kissinger Ncrit ¼ N0exp  ΔGcrit kT   (11) with ΔGcrit as the total free energy for formation of a critical nucleus and N0 the density of nucleation sites. Homogeneous nucleation models based on agglomera- tion of interstitial oxygen assume that N0 is equal to the initial concentration of interstitial oxygen (Wada and Inoue 1986). The nucleation rate J for spherical oxide precipitate nuclei of critical size results from the product of Ncrit, the impingement frequency of an oxygen atom onto a critical nucleus, and the Zeldovich factor Z as follows: J ¼ N0exp  ΔGcrit kT   COi4πncrit3Ωp 4πx  2 3 1 þ δ 1 þ e  2 DOid1Z (12) with Z ¼ ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ ΔGcrit 3πkTncrit2 r (13) according to Becker and Döring (1935). The variable ncrit is the number of oxygen atoms in a nucleus of critical size, and d is the atomic distance in silicon (0.235 nm). Because all calculations refer to the strained precipitate radius, a correction factor for the volume of the precipitate has to be taken into account which contains the volume misﬁt δ and the elastic strain e of the precipitated oxide phase. Many solar silicon materials often contain secondary defects like grain bound- aries and dislocations. Even in CZ-Si secondary dislocations or stacking faults can be created as the result of strain relief of the growing oxide precipitates. All these extended defects are nucleation sites for heterogeneous nucleation of oxide pre- cipitates. The energy barrier for heterogeneous nucleation at dislocations is lower than for homogeneous nucleation because of the energy gained by the annihilation of a part of the dislocation. This leads to an additional negative free energy contribu- tion. As an example, the total free energy for heterogeneous nucleation of a spherical precipitate at an edge dislocation loop ΔGloop het is described here. Because the nucleus is spherical, the part of the surrounding dislocation loop that is annihilated nearly corresponds to the diameter of the sphere. The free energy gained by annihilation of part of an edge dislocation loop of radius R by a precipitate nucleus of radius r containing n oxygen atoms ΔGloop can be obtained using the dislocation energy according to Kroupa (1960). It is assumed that the radius of the dislocation core corresponds to the Burgers vector b. Then, the free energy for heterogeneous nucleation at an edge dislocation loop would be ΔGloop het ¼ ΔGv þ ΔGsphere σ þ ΔGsphere e  ΔGloop with 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 415 ΔGloop ¼ μb2 2π1  ν ð Þ ln 8R be   1 þ δ 1 þ e  1  ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ 3nΩp 4πx 3 r ¼ μb2 2π1  ν ð Þ ln 8R be   2r: (14) All other free energy contributions remain the same as in Eq. 8. In a similar way, the energy gained if nucleation occurs at a grain boundary, stacking fault, or another type of dislocation can be described. Nucleation Curves Usually, experimental nucleation curves are generated by three-step annealing. The ﬁrst step is needed to reduce the inﬂuence of the thermal history on the results which can be tremendous (Swaroop et al. 1987) because different crystal growth conditions result in different size and density of grown-in oxygen precipitate nuclei. The so-called tabula rasa pre-treatment, rapid heating of the samples to temperatures in the range from 1000 to 1100 C and keeping them there for 15 min to 1 h, is one possibility to reduce their impact (Falster et al. 1997a). The pre-treatment lets the grown-in oxide precipitate nuclei shrink to nearly equal sizes (Kissinger et al. 1997). A second way would be overwriting the thermal history by an RTA pre-treatment at a temperature in the range 11501250 C in quasi inert atmosphere. By this pre-treatment, a vacancy proﬁle is created in the wafer (Falster et al. 1997b). The supersaturated vacancies lead to enhanced nucleation of oxygen precipitates. By this method the impact of the grown-in nuclei is superseded, and the impact of vacancies on the nucleation curves can be also studied. The second step in the generation of nucleation curves are the so-called nucle- ation anneals themselves. These are heat treatments for a certain time at different temperatures usually at temperatures up to 1000 C. At this stage, the precipitate nuclei are too small to be detectable by common methods of investigation. For this reason, during additional growth annealing, the precipitates have grown to a size above the detection limit of the method of investigation. A typical precipitate growth treatment used by many authors is annealing at 1000 C for 16 h. The temperature step between nucleation and growth anneals should not be too high and too fast because otherwise many nuclei generated during the nucleation anneal will not survive ramping toward the quite high growth temperature of 1000 C. Usually, so-called stabilization treatments are inserted after nucleation to circumvent or reduce the problem. Many authors use either 800 C for 4 h or 780 C for 3 h (please see, e.g., Kelton et al. 1999; Kissinger et al. 2008a). Figure 9 shows nucleation curves for oxygen precipitates which were generated with different RTA pre-treatments and 8 h of nucleation time. Higher RTA temper- atures lead to higher vacancy supersaturation prior to the nucleation anneal. As expected the bulk microdefect (BMD) density increases with increasing vacancy supersaturation being well in agreement with classical nucleation theory described in 416 G. Kissinger the previous section. BMDs are mainly oxide precipitates with or without secondary defects like dislocations or stacking faults. There are three distinct peaks in the nucleation curves, at about 450 C, 650 C, and 800 C. The latter one strongly depends on the vacancy supersaturation. Nucleation curves generated directly after tabula rasa pre-treatment at 1000 C for 15 min also exhibit the peaks at 450 C and 650 C but not the peak at 800 C (Kelton et al. 1999). The curves with pre-treatment at 1000 C for 15 min are in good agreement with the curves after RTA pre-treatment at 1100 C that practically corresponds to a tabula rasa pre-treatment. Numerical Simulation of Oxygen Precipitation With the help of numerical models, which can describe the evolution of oxide precipitate nucleation, growth, and dissolution during multistep thermal treatments, it is possible to predict the evolution of the size distribution of oxide precipitates during solar cell manufacturing. Such simulations are usually based on rate equa- tions. Möller et al. have applied the following numerical model to describe precip- itation of oxygen in mc-Si (Möller et al. 1999). The attachment of oxygen to a precipitate containing n oxygen atoms is Fig. 9 Nucleation curves for B-doped (10 Ωcm) CZ silicon wafers (COi = 6.5  1017 cm3) pre-treated by RTA for 30 s in Ar/1000 ppm O2 atmosphere. Nucleation time was 8 h in N2 followed by either 780 C 3 h and 1000 C 16 h in N2 for nucleation at 400750 C (left part) or only 1000 C 16 h in N2 for nucleation at 7501000 C (right part). The vacancy concentration obtained from modeling is given in the table. (Reprinted with permission from Kissinger (2015). Copyright 2015, Springer) 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 417 @f n ð Þ @t ¼ g n  1 ð Þf n  1 ð Þ  d n ð Þ þ g n ð Þ ð Þf n ð Þ þ d n þ 1 ð Þf n þ 1 ð Þ (15) with the growth rate g(n, t), the dissolution rate d(n, t) and the size distribution function f(n, t). This requires an equation for each number of oxygen atoms in the precipitate which can result in computational problems quickly. Therefore, for larger n (e.g., n  20), Fokker-Planck equations of the following type are used: @f n ð Þ @t ¼ @I n ð Þ @t with I n,t ð Þ ¼ B @f n,t ð Þ @n þ Af n,t ð Þ (16) B n,t ð Þ ¼ 1 2 g n,t ð Þ þ d n,t ð Þ ½ , and A n,t ð Þ ¼ g n,t ð Þ  d n,t ð Þ  @B n,t ð Þ @n (17) The growth rate and dissolution rate can be obtained using g n,t ð Þ ¼ 4πr2 DOi δ exp ΔG kT   Cif Oi,d n,t ð Þ ¼ 4πr2 DOi δ exp ΔG kT   Cif,eq Oi (18) ΔG ¼ G n þ 1 ð Þ  G n ð Þ þ Gact, and G n ð Þ ¼ nkT ln COi Ceq Oi   þ 4πr2σ 1 þ ζ n  1=3  # (19) with Cif Oi and Cif,eq Oi being the concentration and equilibrium concentration of inter- stitial oxygen at the precipitate/matrix interface. Further details of the simulation model can be found in Möller et al. (1999). In Fig. 10, the results of modeling the evolution of oxide precipitates in mc-Si during cooling of the ingot (Fig. 10 left) and subsequent thermal treatment (Fig. 10 right) are shown. Multi-crystalline ingots cool down rather slowly after solidiﬁca- tion. Already in the as-grown state, tiny oxide precipitates exist in the material. The slower the cooling rate, the larger the grown-in precipitates become. Part of them is growing during thermal treatments forming larger oxide precipitates. After reaching a certain size, corresponding to the detection limit of the method used, they become detectable. The results obtained with an STEM, the method with one of the highest detection limits, are in agreement with the typical evolution of size distributions obtained from modeling as can be seen in Fig. 8. The most interesting question is which part of the grown-in size distribution can grow to form large oxide precipitates because these signiﬁcantly affect the solar cell efﬁciency as will be demonstrated later. For a given grown-in size distribution, this mainly depends on the heating rate and starting temperature of subsequent thermal processing. Here, rate equation modeling is a well-suited method to predict both the grown-in size distribution and the impact of the thermal cycle of solar cell produc- tion on the evolution of oxide precipitates. Generally, it can be said that both high ramp rates and high starting temperatures result in lower densities of oxide pre- cipitates (Kissinger 2015). 418 G. Kissinger Vacancy Concentration in Solar Silicon Because vacancies Vand self-interstitials I enhance and retard oxygen precipitation, respectively, it is interesting to know which concentrations of these intrinsic point defects are already incorporated during crystal growth and how they affect the nucleation of oxide precipitates already during ingot fabrication. The dynamics of intrinsic point defects during CZ-Si single crystal growth is very well understood by Voronkovs theory which was later extended by Vanhellemont et al. to describe the impact of stress and doping on the distribution of intrinsic point defects (Voronkov 1982; Vanhellemont et al. 2015). The v/G criterion derived by Voronkov can predict if a silicon crystal becomes vacancy- or interstitial-rich whereby v represents the pulling speed and G is the axial temperature gradient at the solid/melt interface. There is a critical v/G = Γcrit which means that crystals with v/G  Γcrit become vacancy-rich, and for v/G  Γcrit, they become interstitial-rich. The thermal gradient from the center toward the edge of a crystal depends on the design of the hot zone in the crystal puller. Usually, without special efforts, G is increasing toward the edge of a crystal and v/G is decreasing. Depending on the pulling speed, different regions with different intrinsic point defect types and concentrations appear in a crystal having different impact on oxygen precipitation. This is demonstrated schematically in Fig. 11 showing a longitudinal section of a crystal grown with decreasing pulling rate. The dark and bright areas represent regions of low and high, respectively, BMD densities as they are obtained after BMD test annealing, e.g., 800 C for 4 h and 1000 C for 16 h. At the highest pull rate in the top region of the crystal in Fig. 11, we can ﬁnd the void region. Here, the concentration of vacancies near the solid/melt interface was highest. They supersaturate during cooling resulting in vacancy agglomeration in the form of octahedral voids at around 1100 C. The residual 1018 1013 a b 108 103 102 1018 1013 108 103 102 107 100 101 102 103 104 105 106 Number of oxygen atoms Number of oxygen atoms Size distribution [cm3] Size distribution [cm3] 107 108 109 1010 100 101 102 103 104 105 700 C 2 hours 10 hours 30 hours 800 C 900 C 1000 C 106 107 108 109 1010 Fig. 10 The size distribution function f(n) for a cooling process from 1400 to 400 C. An exponential time dependence is assumed in (a). In (b) an annealing step follows for the 10 h cooling proﬁle. The initial concentration of interstitial oxygen is 1  1018 cm3 (IOC-88). (Reproduced from Möller et al. (1999) with permission. Copyright 1999, Whiley) 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 419 vacancies enhance formation of oxide precipitate nuclei during further cooling when they supersaturate again. With decreasing pull rate, the vacancy concentration decreases, and the critical supersaturation for void formation is not reached anymore during cooling before oxygen precipitation starts. Very large oxide precipitate nuclei of lower density are formed in the narrow region, called OSF region in Fig. 11. These large grown-in defects are prone to develop stacking faults during a wet oxidation at 1100 C. Therefore, this narrow band is also called OSF ring because on a wafer, it would form a ring. With further decreasing pull rate, a region containing a high density of small oxide precipitate nuclei appears resulting from somewhat lower vacancy supersaturation during cooling. This region is called Pv (perfect vacancy) region because it is a vacancy region without voids. With further decreasing cooling rate, we pass Γcrit and the I-perfect region appears. Here self-interstitials are the main point defects, but their concentration is low, and they do not agglomerate during cooling. Therefore, this region is called Pi (perfect interstitial) region. Formation of oxide precipitate nuclei is strongly suppressed as can be seen from the very dark color in Fig. 11. With further cooling, the interstitial concentration increases and we meet the B-band. In this band the ﬁrst small interstitial defects, so-called B-swirls, appear, and oxygen precipitation increases somewhat. At the lowest pull rate, we reach the I-region with large interstitial type dislocation clusters (A-swirls) of low density. As can be seen in Fig. 11, in all interstitial type regions, oxygen precipitation is weak or completely suppressed, and in all vacancy-type regions, it is more or less strong. Fig. 11 Scheme of a typical BMD pattern in a CZ-Si crystal grown with a decreasing pulling rate. The different gray scales correspond to different BMD densities (dark low, light high). The red line marks the boundary between I-rich and V-rich regions 420 G. Kissinger Commercial state-of-the-art CZ-Si for photovoltaic applications is usually fast- pulled that means grown under vacancy-rich conditions (Hu et al. 2012). If a P-band with large grown-in nuclei is contained in a Cz-Si wafer, such region was found to result in lower lifetimes even after TD annihilation at 800 C that is due to the large grown-in precipitate nuclei which are active recombination centers (Hu et al. 2012). Gaspar et al. found striations of different vacancy concentration in n-type CZ-Si which lead to striations of different concentration of oxide precipitates after thermal treatment of solar cell manufacturing (Gaspar et al. 2016). During cooling of the crystal, the different vacancy concentrations have led to different sizes of the grown- in oxide precipitate nuclei. Karg et al. measured the vacancy concentrations in different solar silicon mate- rials in the as-grown state using Pt diffusion as shown in Table 2. They found that the grown-in vacancy concentration is not only interacting with oxygen precipitation alone, it also affects the efﬁciency of H-passivation. In materials with high V concentration and high oxygen concentration, a high density of oxide precipitates can trap hydrogen, thus reducing the H diffusivity (Karg et al. 2004). The lower the density of oxide precipitates, the faster is the H diffusing. In V-rich material with low oxygen, the H-diffusion is even enhanced by vacancies dissociating immobile H2 molecules (Karg et al. 2004). Interaction of Vacancies and Oxygen in Silicon In oxygen containing silicon, vacancies are mainly bound to oxygen atoms forming VOn complexes with n being the number of oxygen atoms. The investigation of VOn complexes in silicon wafers is very difﬁcult because of their low concentration, which is in the range of 1013 cm3 (Kissinger et al. 2011). Irradiation experiments are the main source of information about VOn complexes. By irradiation their concentration is increased to a much higher level compared to the level at which they can be found in processed wafers (Quemener et al. 2015). In earlier papers, the VO2 species was believed to be the most dominant VOn complex that appears in silicon and RTA-treated wafers (Voronkov and Falster 2002; Kissinger et al. 2007). Akhmetov et al. (2009) were the ﬁrst who published the detection of VO4 complexes in non-irradiated but RTA-treated silicon wafers. Recently, it was conﬁrmed in a Table 2 Vacancy concentration of different solar-grade Si materials in the as-grown state (Karg et al. 2003, 2004) Material type HEMa Multi- crystalline silicon EFGb String ribbon silicon Float zone (N-doped) CZ-Si Tri- crystalline silicon Vacancy concentration 1012 (cm3) 310 0.5 1020 430 3050 0.51 3 aHEM (high efﬁciency multi-crystalline silicon) bEFG (edge-deﬁned-ﬁlm-fed grown silicon) 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 421 more comprehensive investigation of wafers treated by RTA in the temperature range 12501400 C that the only detectable VOn complex is VO4 (Kot et al. 2018). Its concentration increases with increasing RTA soak temperature that means with increasing vacancy concentration as shown in Fig. 12. VOn complexes are detectable by FTIR spectroscopy at 6 K. The absorption band at 985 cm1 was attributed to VO4 (Murin et al. 2005). The VOn complex formation during RTA can be well simulated by a rate equation model using the formation energies of ab initio calculation. Figure 13 demonstrates that the simulated concentration of VO4 corre- sponds well to the measured concentration (Kot et al. 2018). It can be also seen that VO5 and VO6 should be more abundant than VO4. The problem is that their absorption bands are not well known. The main effect of VOn formation is the storage of high vacancy concentrations by binding to oxygen. During subsequent annealing, they are released by a backward reaction chain removing gradually the oxygen atoms. Thus they can enhance the growth of oxide precipitates much longer than a pure vacancy proﬁle would do because single vacancies would quickly diffuse out. Binding to oxygen also increases the amount of vacancies stored during RTA compared to vacancy storage without binding to oxygen (Kot et al. 2018). Silicon oxide phases that can serve as coherent oxygen precipitate nuclei the so-called seed-oxides were investigated by ab initio calculation. Two-dimensional and three-dimensional seed-oxides were proposed, and the features of these artiﬁcial phases were also determined by ab initio calculation (Kissinger et al. 2007, 2008b; Kissinger and Dabrowski 2008). In Fig. 14, the seed-oxides are shown that were suitable to model the experimental nucleation curves in Fig. 9. They are planar conﬁgurations on {100} consisting of either single or double layers of oxygen Fig. 12 Differential FTIR spectra (6 K) of samples treated by RTA at different temperature. With decreasing RTA temperatures, the maximum absorption coefﬁcient decreases. A sample treated by RTA at 1100 C was used as the reference. (Reprinted with permission from Kot et al. (2018). Copyright The Electrochemical Society 2018) 422 G. Kissinger dimers or of layers of VO2. They could be formed by attachment of Oi, O2, V, VO, or VO2 because all these species are diffusive (Quemener et al. 2014). All such seed- oxide platelets possess Burgers vectors b that result from the difference between the lattice constant in [001] direction with and without the defect. That means the seed- oxide platelets are always strained whereby the maximum strain would be located at the edge surrounding the platelet. While these nuclei continue growing, coherency is lost due to coherency strains resulting from lattice misﬁt between precipitate and matrix. Effect of Oxide Precipitates on the Lifetime of Charge Carriers Miyagi et al. investigated the impact of grown-in and nucleated oxide precipitates on the lifetime of minority carriers (Miyagi et al. 1982). They found that both the oxide precipitates generated during nucleation anneals and the grown-in oxide precipitates increasing in size during anneals decreased the lifetime when their length exceeded 10 nm. The lifetime of the minority carriers was nearly proportional to the reciprocal length of the plate-like oxide precipitates. In an extensive experimental study including oxide precipitates and also sec- ondary defects like stacking faults and dislocation loops, Hwang and Schroder found that the oxide precipitates are mainly responsible for the lifetime Fig. 13 Concentration of VOn complexes obtained from modeling compared to experimentally obtained VO4 concentrations. (Reprinted with permission from Kot et al. (2018). Copyright The Electrochemical Society 2018) 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 423 degradation (Hwang and Schroder 1986). The degradation takes place through interface states, and it is more pronounced in p-type than in n-type silicon. The interface states are similar to the interface states of oxidized silicon in some respect, e.g., localized states due to trivalent silicon dangling bonds, the Pb centers, were found (Hwang and Schroder 1986). Hwang and Schroder developed a model for recombination at oxide precipitates based on band bending around oxide precipitates due to the positive ﬁxed charges as it is shown in Fig. 15. The positive Fig. 14 Ball-and-stick models of a planar oxygen precipitate consisting of a single plane of oxygen dimers (top) and a planar oxygen precipitate consisting of a double plane of oxygen dimers, (Oi)2-p2. The silicon atoms are marked in red and the oxygen atoms are smaller yellow atoms. (Reprinted with permission from Kissinger et al. (2008b). Copyright 2008, Trans Tech Publications Ltd. Ball-and- stick model of a planar oxygen precipitate consisting of a single plane of VO2 (bottom). Reprinted with permission from Kissinger and Dabrowski (2008). Copyright 2008, The Electrochemical Society) 424 G. Kissinger ﬁxed charges give rise to a depletion region around oxide precipitates in p-type Si, providing a large collection volume for minority electrons. However the accumulation layer in n-type Si acts as reﬂecting barrier to minority holes. This explains the lifetime difference in n-type and p-type Si. It is assumed that the effective recombination lifetime τeff is determined by three recombination mechanisms as follows: 1 τeff ¼ 1 τop þ 1 τb þ 1 τs (20) where τop, τb, and τs characterize the lifetime contributions of the oxygen precipitates through interface states, the bulk impurities such as point defects, and the surface via surface states, respectively (Hwang and Schroder 1986). The lifetime contribution of the oxygen precipitates can be approximated by τop ¼ 4πN opSeffr2 d 1 (21) with Nop being the density of oxygen precipitates, Seff their effective surface recom- bination velocity, and rd the radius of the space charge region. Equation (21) assumes that surface recombination is the rate-limiting step and diffusion of the excess minority carriers is neglected. Vanhellemont et al. also found that oxygen precipitation-related lattice defects decrease the carrier lifetime in p-type Si acting as traps for minority carriers (Vanhellemont et al. 1995). They also found a close correlation between the D1 and D2 line intensities and the minority carrier lifetime. While the investigations of lifetime degradation described so far were carried out on microelectronic grade CZ-Si, Murphy et al. published results of extensive studies on lifetime issues using solar-grade CZ-Si (Murphy et al. 2011, 2013, 2014, 2015). They carefully analyzed the contributions from many recombination processes, like band-to-band recombination, Coulomb- OP a b OP EC EF f0 EV EC EF EV n - Si p - Si 2ro rd rd Fig. 15 Schematic band diagrams with band bending due to positive ﬁxed charges in oxide precipitates which give rise to (a) a depletion region in p-Si and (b) an accumulation layer around oxide precipitates in n-Si. (Reproduced from Hwang and Schroder (1986), with the permission of AIP Publishing) 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 425 enhanced Auger recombination, and Shockley-Read-Hall recombination at interstitial iron in the bulk, to ﬁnally isolate the contribution coming from recombination at oxide precipitates and their secondary defects. They found that even for a high density of very small precipitates, being below the detection limit of their preferential etching method, high lifetimes can be achieved. This result is very similar to the results of Miyagi et al. described above. Murphy et al. call these small precipitates below the detection limit unstrained precipitates, and their estimated capture coefﬁcient lies between 3  108 cm3 s1 and 1.3  107 cm3 s1 (Murphy et al. 2011). Correspondingly, the oxide precipitates observed by preferential etching are called strained precipitates. At these type of precipitates, much stronger recombination of carriers was observed with a capture coefﬁcient of 1  106 cm3 s1. When the oxide precipitates have already developed secondary defects, the capture coefﬁcient increased by a factor of 34 (Murphy et al. 2011). The meaning of a capture coefﬁcient goes back to Shockley-Read-Hall statistics. In another study, Murphy et al. investigated the impact of iron contamination on the recombination at oxide precipitates (Murphy et al. 2013). The iron atoms segregated to the oxide precipitates during thermal treatments. The Shockley- Read-Hall parameter of the states introduced by intentional iron contamination was the same as for precipitates in CZ-Si without intentional iron contamination (Murphy et al. 2013). This suggests that their electrical activity is also caused by impurity contamination. Two independent defect states which are related to oxide precipitates were observed by Murphy et al. These are a defect at Ev + 0.22 eV with a capture coefﬁcient for electrons 157 times greater than for holes and a defect at Ec  0.08 eV with a capture coefﬁcient for holes 1200 times greater than for electrons (Murphy et al. 2014). The concentration of the recombination centers scaled with density of precipitates but not with their size and secondary defects increased the density of recombination centers per precipitate. Murphy et al. generalized their ﬁndings with respect to the surface area of oxide precipitates and its impact on lifetime for both p-type and n-type silicon (Murphy et al. 2015). They found it more likely that the density of recombination centers associated with oxide precipitates depends on their surface area. Comparing n-type and p-type silicon, Murphy et al. concluded that for a given interface area, the lifetime of n-type silicon is never lower than for p-type silicon, with oxide precipitates being substantially more detrimental in the p-type case at lower injection level as used by Hwang and Schroder (Murphy et al. 2015). Effect of Oxygen Precipitation on the Performance of Solar Cells Oxide precipitates do not only inﬂuence the lifetime of solar cell material but also the whole solar cell performance (Chen et al. 2011). Chen et al. carried out an 426 G. Kissinger experiment with CZ-Si solar cells fabricated in the same way on material with different concentrations of oxide precipitates. The different BMD densities were generated by two-step annealing. In the ﬁrst step, a nucleation anneal at 750 C, the time was varied leading to different concentrations of oxide precipitate nuclei. The second step was just a growth step at 1050 C for 16 h equally carried out for all wafers. The loss of interstitial oxygen and microscopic images of the preferentially etched surfaces both demonstrating the effect of the wafer pre-treatment can be found in Fig. 16. On these pre-treated wafers, solar cells were fabricated in a solar cell manufactur- ing line of a company. As expected and described in detail in the previous section, the lifetime of the minority carriers signiﬁcantly decreased with an increasing oxide precipitate density. It was also found that the external quantum efﬁciency (EQE) of the solar cells degrades at long wavelengths in the presence of oxide precipitates. It can be seen in Fig. 17 (left) that, especially for wavelengths from 700 to 1100 nm, the EQE is degraded compared to solar cell fabricated on the reference wafer without pre-treatments. It is known that this long wavelength region reveals information about the quality of bulk material and recombination at the rear side of the cells (Suwito et al. 2010). Measurement of the leakage currents of the solar cells has shown that the leakage currents increase with increasing oxide precipitate density as demonstrated in Fig. 17 (right). Effects of oxide precipitates on the leakage current are known already very well from microelectronic devices (Shimura 1966; Vanhellemont et al. 1995; Murakami et al. 1998). Figure 18 provides further cell parameters like the short-circuit current density Jsc, the open-circuit voltage Voc, the ﬁll factor FF, and the cell efﬁciency Eff. Only the Fig. 16 Left: Loss of interstitial oxygen concentration Δ[Oi] as a function of the annealing time at 750 C after 750 + 1050 C 16 h two-step thermal treatments. Right: Optical micrographs of BMDs in silicon after different two-step anneals. (a) The referenced wafer without any thermal treatments, (b) 1050 C/16 h, (c) 750 C/2 h + 1050 C/16 h, (d) 750 C/4 h + 1050 C/16 h, (e) 750 C/ 8 h + 1050 C/16 h, (f) 750 C/16 h + 1050 C/16 h. (Reprinted from Chen et al. (2011). Copyright 2011 with permission from Elsevier) 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 427 Fig. 17 Left: Representative external quantum efﬁciency (EQE) of the solar cells made from (a) the reference sample, (b) the sample subjected to 1050 C annealing for 16 h without pre-annealing, and (f) the sample subjected to750 C pre-annealing for 16 h followed by1050 C annealing for 16 h. Right: Inverse current-voltage characteristics of solar cells from the reference sample and the samples are subjected to pre-annealing for different durations at 750 C followed by 1050 C annealing for 16 h, which contains different oxygen precipitate concentrations. (Reprinted from Chen et al. (2011). Copyright 2011 with permission from Elsevier) Fig. 18 Characteristic parameters of the solar cells from the reference sample and the samples subjected to pre-annealing for different durations at 750 C followed by 1050 C annealing for 16 h, which contains different oxygen precipitate concentrations. (Reproduced from Chen et al. (2011). Copyright 2011 with permission from Elsevier) 428 G. Kissinger ﬁll factor remains unaffected by oxide precipitates. All other parameters and espe- cially the solar cell efﬁciency decrease signiﬁcantly with increasing density of oxide precipitates (Chen et al. 2011). This indicates that the control of oxygen precipitation is crucial for manufacturing of efﬁcient solar cells. Interaction of Oxygen with Dopants and Other Impurities Interaction with Carbon Carbon can occupy substitutional Cs or interstitial Ci sites in silicon depending on the availability of intrinsic point defects. Interstitial carbon is easily trapped by interstitial oxygen Oi forming CiOi complexes, known as the C3 centers, which are electrically active with a donor level at EV + 0.36 eV (Mooney et al. 1977). The carbon-oxygen complex CiOi is stable up to temperatures of about 300 C before it starts to dissociate (Svensson and Lindström 1986). Carbon-oxygen complexes enhance precipitation of oxygen. The enhancement effect of carbon on oxygen precipitation in CZ-Si was investigated by means of infrared absorption spectroscopy at room temperature (Shimura 1986). Carbon enhances oxygen precipitation in two ways. Below a critical temperature in the range 800850 C, perturbed (Ci-Oi)C(3) centers can be observed by IR spectros- copy. These perturbed C(3) centers are estimated to consist of a complex with two to three oxygen atoms per carbon atom, and they are assumed to act as heterogeneous nucleation centers for oxygen precipitation (Shimura 1986). At temperatures higher than the critical temperature, carbon plays a catalytic role in oxygen precipitation. It was shown by Shimura that the formation of (CiOi)C(3) centers is not affected by high-temperature pre-annealing at 1250 C. Yang and Möller investigated the effect of heat treatment on carbon in cast mc-Si (Yang and Möller 2002). Their results are in agreement with Shimuras results. It was found that during annealing at temperatures lower than 850 C, carbon enhances the nucleation of oxide precipitates. Carbon also enhances the formation of grown-in oxide precipitates during the crystal growth process (Yang and Möller 2002). Zhang et al. investigated the impact of carbon impurities on as-grown defects and correlated extended defects in n-type CZ-Si (Zhang et al. 2015). They found that the grown-in void concentration was not affected by the concentration of substitutional carbon. Although a high density of vacancies is introduced by carbon during crystallization, obviously, the vacancies were mainly incorporated into the lattice or consumed by the formation of VOn complexes or oxide precipitate nuclei (Zhang et al. 2015). After a two-step oxidation (750 C 4 h + 1050 C 16 h), a higher density of oxide precipitates and a lower number of stacking faults were observed for higher Cs because high carbon concentration leads to a higher density of smaller grown-in oxide precipitate nuclei. Both the results of Tachibana et al. and Kinoshita et al. suggest that although carbon enhances the oxygen precipitation and decreases lifetime and solar cell performance, it is possible to control its detrimental impact by the control of crystal 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 429 growth conditions (Tachibana et al. 2017; Kinoshita et al. 2019). Tachibana et al. used CZ-Si wafers from conventionally grown ingots and from ingots with con- trolled cooling rate with the same concentration of interstitial oxygen and varying Cs concentration in a fabrication process for n-type bifacial solar cells. As can be seen in Fig. 19, the implied open-circuit voltage Voc is decreasing with increasing concen- tration of substitutional carbon; however, for the wafers from the ingots with controlled cooling rate, it is always higher even exceeding the Voc of cells with lower carbon concentration. Kinoshita et al. controlled the cooling rate during CZ-Si crystal pulling by an additional heater keeping the crystal at high temperature of 1000800 C for 10 h followed by rapid cooling. Compared to conventional pulling, the lifetime degrada- tion and oxygen precipitation were reduced for similar carbon concentration (Kinoshita et al. 2019). So both the appropriate choice of feedstock material with low carbon concentration and control of crystal growth condition are the right ways to increase solar cell efﬁciency. Miyamura et al. studied the inﬂuence of oxygen and carbon incorporated into seed cast monocrystalline ingots by varying the gas ﬂow conditions and crucible coating material on the efﬁciency of passivated emitter and rear contact (PERC) solar cells (Miyamura et al. 2015). It can be seen in Fig. 20 that in the crystals the substitutional carbon increases with increasing ingot height, whereas the interstitial oxygen decreases. The solar cell efﬁciency also increases with increasing ingot height until it reaches efﬁciencies of 18.8% comparable to monocrystalline CZ-Si with 18.9%. This indicates that it is most important to reduce the oxygen concen- tration of the material to prevent oxygen precipitation at all. Then carbon is not detrimental anymore. Fig. 19 The relationship between the implied Voc and Cs concentration after the thermal treatment corresponding to the n-type bifacial solar cell. (Reprinted from Tachibana et al. (2017). Copyright 2017 with permission from the authors) 430 G. Kissinger Interaction with Nitrogen Nitrogen is well known to enhance oxygen precipitation (Sun et al. 1992; Yu et al. 2002). This is mainly due to a larger size of the grown-in oxide precipitate nuclei which are supposed to be stable up to 1100 C, whereas most of the nuclei in CZ-Si without nitrogen doping shrink at this temperature (Nakai et al. 2001). If the concentration of nitrogen is very high like it can happen in mc-Si, nitrogen can precipitate in the form of α-Si3N4 in addition to oxide precipitates during cooling of the ingot (Ono et al. 2010). If both the concentration of oxygen and nitrogen are also very high, Si2N2O precipitates can appear (Lu et al. 2004). Interaction with Boron It was found that high boron concentrations enhance the diffusivity of oxygen in silicon. This also results in a higher growth rate of oxygen precipitates (Sueoka et al. 2000). Murphy et al. also found an enhanced diffusivity of oxygen in highly B-doped silicon in dislocation locking experiments at 350550 C (Murphy et al. 2006). The activation energy was nearly the same as for the effective oxygen diffusivity found in dislocation locking experiments for moderately B-doped wafers, but the pre-factor was increased. Torigoe and Ono clariﬁed this effect (Torigoe and Ono 2017). They found that the boron diffusion during annealing at 8501000 C is enhanced with the increase of the oxide precipitate density. Based on a model for boron diffusion mediated by silicon self-interstitials, it was revealed that the enhanced diffusion can be attributed to self-interstitials supersaturated as a result of the emission from oxide precipitates and the absorption by punched-out disloca- tions (Torigoe and Ono 2017). Metastable complexes of oxygen and boron are lifetime limiting defects known to degrade solar cell performance in B-doped silicon (Schmidt and Bothe 2004). The correlation of the concentration of the lifetime limiting defects with the Fig. 20 Middle and left: Variation of substitutional carbon Cs and interstitial oxygen Oi (JEIDA) concentrations along ingot height in three ingots. Right: Solar cell efﬁciencies of #2B ingot along ingot height position compared to solar cell efﬁciencies of CZ-Si. (Reproduced with permission from Miyamura et al. (2015). Copyright 2015 The Japan Society of Applied Physics) 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 431 concentrations of oxygen and boron indicated that the defect consists of one boron and two oxygen atoms (Schmidt and Bothe 2004). Fast-diffusing oxygen dimers O2 are assumed to be captured by immobile substitutional boron Bs forming BO2. Schmidt and Bothe have characterized these complexes very extensively. The formation and annihilation of these metastable BO2 complexes are both thermally activated processes characterized by two strongly different activation energies of 0.4 eV and 1.3 eV, respectively. Moreover, the defect generation rate increases proportionally with light intensity below 1 mW/cm2 and saturates at higher light intensities (Schmidt and Bothe 2004). A lot of further results and theories were published about the origin of this effect. In Chap. 6, Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si, this issue is discussed in detail. Interaction with Hydrogen It was found that hydrogen in silicon reduces the migration barrier for oxygen in silicon and in this way enhances the diffusivity of interstitial oxygen (Newman et al. 1991; Stein and Hahn 1994). The oxygen diffusivity can be already enhanced by a hydrogen concentration as low as 108 cm3. Newman et al. published a diffusion coefﬁcient for the hydrogen-enhanced diffusion of interstitial oxygen determined in silicon given a post-growth heat treatment at 900 C for 2 h in hydrogen being: DOi H enhanced ð Þ T ð Þ ¼ 7:1  104exp  2:0eV kT   cm2s1 (22) The hydrogen-enhanced diffusivity of interstitial oxygen would lead to enhanced growth of oxygen precipitates and to enhancement of thermal donor formation. Hydrogen acts as a catalyzer for forming electrically active ring structures with threefold coordinated oxygen from oxygen chains (Tsetseries et al. 2006). The experimentally determined activation energy for hydrogen-enhanced thermal donor formation amounts to 1.7  0.3 eV (Stein and Hahn 1994). Simoen et al. concluded from DLTS and FTIR measurements that hydrogen actively takes part in donor formation (Simoen et al. 2009). According to their results, the H-related shallow thermal donors are a different species than the usual oxygen thermal donors. Conclusion In this chapter, a comprehensive overview about the formation of oxygen-related defects, methods of their detection, and their impact on solar silicon material and devices is provided. This knowledge can serve as a basis for successful defect engineering in solar-grade crystal manufacturing and solar cell fabrication. Generally, it can be concluded that the best way to optimize the material for solar cell production is to prevent the incorporation of oxygen during crystal growth. However, at present this is only practicable for high-end products for cost reasons, 432 G. Kissinger where, e.g., FZ-Si could be used. A promising solution is already available for mc-Si where crucible coatings with low oxygen content are available. Thermal donors which can be formed during crystal manufacturing are less detrimental to solar cell performance because the temperatures used during manufacturing of solar cells are high enough to destroy them. This does not hold for NTDs which are formed at temperatures typical for solar cell manufacturing. The NTDs are connected to oxide precipitates, and controlling oxygen precipitation also serves controlling NTDs. Oxide precipitates degrade the lifetime of minority carriers and of the whole solar cell performance. There are different ways to suppress oxygen precipitation for a given oxygen content of the material. Already during crystal pulling, grown-in oxide precipitate nuclei are formed. Their size distribution can be controlled by the cooling ramp of the crystal and by the concentration of intrinsic point defects related with the pulling conditions. The larger the grown-in oxide precipitate nuclei, the higher the density which can grow forming large lifetime degrading precipitates. Another way of inﬂuencing the density of oxide precipitates is via ramp rates and processing temperatures in the solar cell manufacturing process. A high ramp rate in the ﬁrst processing step to high temperature is very efﬁciently suppressing oxygen precipitation. Longer dwell times in the temperature region of nucleation, however, would enhance oxygen precipitation. One also has to be aware that oxide layers suppress and nitride layers enhance oxygen precipitation especially beneath the layers. There are also interactions with other impurities incorporated in solar-grade silicon. Carbon impurities are heterogeneous nucleation centers increasing the density of oxide precipitates. Therefore, controlling the carbon concentration is very important. Nitro- gen contamination is known to increase size of grown-in nuclei in CZ-Si. In practice, there are several constraints from process technology, cost, and availability, and it is not possible to apply all the suggestions for efﬁciently control- ling oxygen-related defect formation. However, each step into the right direction is a step to higher solar cell efﬁciency. Cross-References Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon References D. Ǻberg, B.G. Svensson, T. Hallberg, J.L. Lindström, Phys. Rev. B 58, 12944 (1998) V. Akhmetov, G. Kissinger, W. von Ammon, Appl. Phys. Lett. 94, 092105 (2009) L. Arnberg, M. Di Sabatino, E.J. Øvrelid, J. Cryst. Growth 360, 56 (2012) R. Becker, W. Döring, Ann. Phys. 24, 719 (1935) 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 433 J.L. Benton, L.C. Kimerling, M. Stavola, Phy. B 116, 271 (1983) S. Binetti, S. Pizzini, E. Leoni, R. Somaschini, A. Castaldini, A. Cavallini, J. Appl. Phys. 92, 2437 (2002) S. Binetti, A. Le Donne, A. Sassella, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 130, 696 (2014) A. Borghesi, A. Piaggi, A. Sassella, A. Stella, B. Pivac, Phys. Rev. B 46, 4123 (1992) A. Borghesi, B. Pivac, A. Sassella, A. Stella, J. Appl. Phys. 77, 4169 (1995) A. Borghesi, A. Sassela, P. Geranzani, M. Porrini, B. Pivac, Mater. Sci. Eng. B 73, 145 (2000) S. Cadeo, S. Pizzini, M. Acciarri, A. Cavallini, Mat. Sci. Semicond. Proc. 2, 57 (1999) V. Cazcarra, P. Zunino, J. Appl. Phys. 51, 4206 (1980) L. Chen, X. Yu, P. Chen, P. Wang, X. Gu, J. Lu, D. Yang, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 95, 3148 (2011) M. Claybourn, R.C. Newman, Appl. Phys. Lett. 52, 2139 (1988) J. Coutinho, R. Jones, L.I. Murin, V.P. Markevich, J.L. Lindström, S. Öberg, P.R. Briddon, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 235501 (2001) R. Falster, M. Cornara, D. Gambaro, M. Olmo, M. Pagani, Solid State Phenom. 5758, 123 (1997a) R. Falster, M. Pagani, D. Gambaro, M. Cornara, M. Olmo, G. Ferrero, P. Pichler, M. Jacob, Solid State Phenom. 5758, 129 (1997b) C.S. Fuller, R.A. Logan, J. Appl. Phys. 28, 1427 (1957) J. Furukawa, H. Furuya, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 34, L156 (1995) G. Gaspar, G. Coletti, M. Juel, S. Würzner, R. Søndenå, M. Di Sabatino, L. Arnberg, E.J. Øvrelid, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 153, 31 (2016) W. Götz, G. Pensl, W. Zulehner, Phys. Rev. B 46, 4312 (1992) T. Hallberg, J.L. Lindström, J. Appl. Phys. 72, 5130 (1992) C. Häßler, H.-U. Höfs, W. Koch, G. Stollwerck, A. Müller, D. Karg, G. Pensl, Mat. Sci. Eng. B71, 39 (2000) S.M. Hu, J. Appl. Phys. 51, 5945 (1980) Y. Hu, H. Schøn, E.J. Øvrelid, Ø. Nielsen, L. Arnberg, AIP Adv. 2, 032169 (2012) J.M. Hwang, D. Schroder, J. Appl. Phys. 59, 2476 (1986) K. Kaneko, K. Nakagawa, T. Onizuka, K. Sasatani, N. Kubo, M. Kida, in Proc. 16th Workshop on Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells and Modules, ed. by B. L. Sopori, NREL, (Denver, 2006), p. 2 D. Karg, G. Pensl, M. Schulz, C. Hässler, W. Koch, Phys. Stat. Sol. (B) 222, 379 (2000) D. Karg, G. Pensl, M. Schulz, in Proc. 3rd World Conf. on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion, WCPEC-3 Organizing Committee, (Osaka, 2003), p. 11121115 D. Karg, H. Chariﬁ, G. Pensl, M. Schulz, G. Hahn, in 19th Europ. Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conf.: Proc. of the Int. Conf. held in Paris, France, June 711 2004, vol 1, ed. by H. Winfried (WIP, München [u.a.], 2004), pp. 709712. ISBN 3-936338-14-0 G. Kato, M. Tajima, F. Okayama, S. Tokumaru, R. Sato, H. Toyota, A. Ogura, Acta Phys. Pol. A 125, 1010 (2014) K.F. Kelton, R. Falster, D. Gambaro, M. Olmo, M. Cornara, P.F. Wei, J. Appl. Phys. 85, 8097 (1999) K. Kinoshita, T. Kojima, K. Onishi, Y. Ohshita, A. Ogura, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 58, SBBF02 (2019) G. Kissinger, in Defects and Impurities in Silicon Materials, Lecture Notes in Physics, ed. by Y. Yoshida, G. Langouche, vol. 916, (Springer, Japan, 2015), pp. 273341 G. Kissinger, J. Dabrowski, J. Electrochem. Soc. 155, H448 (2008) G. Kissinger, D. Gräf, U. Lambert, H. Richter, J. Electrochem. Soc. 144, 1447 (1997) G. Kissinger, J. Dabrowski, A. Sattler, C. Seuring, T. Müller, H. Richter, W. von Ammon, J. Electrochem. Soc. 154, H454 (2007) G. Kissinger, D. Kot, J. Dabrowski, V. Akhmetov, A. Sattler, W. von Ammon, ECS Trans. 16(6), 97 (2008a) G. Kissinger, J. Dabrowski, A. Sattler, T. Müller, W. von Ammon, Solid State Phenom. 131133, 293 (2008b) G. Kissinger, J. Dabrowski, V. Akhmetov, A. Sattler, D. Kot, W. von Ammon, Solis State Phenom. 156158, 211 (2010) G. Kissinger, J. Dabrowski, D. Kot, V. Akhmetov, A. Sattler, W. von Ammon, J. Electrochem. Soc. 158, H343 (2011) 434 G. Kissinger G. Kissinger, D. Kot, J. Dabrowski, T. Grabolla, T. Müller, A. Sattler, Phys. Status Solidi A 214, 1700236 (2017) D. Kot, T. Mchedlidze, G. Kissinger, W. von Ammon, ECS J. Solid State Sci. Technol. 2, P9 (2013) D. Kot, G. Kissinger, M.A. Schubert, A. Sattler, ECS J. Solid State Sci. Technol. 3(11), P370 (2014) D. Kot, G. Kissinger, M.A. Schubert, S. Marschmeyer, G. Schwalb, A. Sattler, Phys. Stat. Sol. (C) 14, 1700161 (2017) D. Kot, G. Kissinger, J. Dabrowski, A. Sattler, ECS J. Solid State Sci. Technol. 7, P707 (2018) F. Kroupa, Czechoslov. J. Phys. 10B, 284 (1960) A. Le Donne, S. Binetti, V. Folegatti, G. Coletti, Appl. Phys. Lett. 109, 033907 (2016) S.-T. Lee, P. Fellinger, S. Chen, J. Appl. Phys. 63, 1924 (1988) J. Lu, G. Rozgonyi, J. Rand, R. Jonczyk, J. Cryst. Growth 269, 599 (2004) V.P. Markevich, M. Vaqueiro-Contreras, S.B. Lastovskii, L.I. Murin, M.P. Halsall, A.R. Peaker, J. Appl. Phys. 124, 225703 (2018) S.A. McQuaid, B.K. Johnson, D. Gambaro, R. Falster, M.J. Ashwin, J.H. Tucker, J. Appl. Phys. 86, 1878 (1999) J.C. Mikkelsen Jr., Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 59, 19 (1986) M. Miyagi, K. Wada, J. Osaka, N. Inoue, Appl. Phys. Lett. 40, 719 (1982) Y. Miyamura, H. Harada, K. Jiptner, S. Nakano, B. Gao, K. Kakimoto, K. Nakamura, Y. Ohshita, A. Ogura, S. Sugawara, T. Sekiguchi, Appl. Phys. Express 8, 062301 (2015) Y. Miyamura, H. Harada, S. Nakano, S. Nishizawa, K. Kakimoto, J. Cryst. Growth 489, 1 (2018) H.J. Möller, L. Long, M. Werner, D. Yang, Phys. Stat. Sol. (A) 171, 175 (1999) P.M. Mooney, L.J. Cheng, M. Süli, J.D. Gerson, J.W. Corbett, Phys. Rev. B 15, 3836 (1977) Y. Murakami, Y. Satoh, H. Furuja, T. Shingyouji, J. Appl. Phys. 84, 3175 (1998) L.I. Murin, J.L. Lindström, B.G. Svensson, V.P. Markevich, A.R. Peaker, C.A. Londos, Solid State Phenom. 108109, 267 (2005) J.D. Murphy, P.R. Wilshaw, B.C. Pygall, S. Senkader, J. Appl. Phys. 100, 103531 (2006) J.D. Murphy, K. Bothe, M. Olmo, V.V. Voronkov, R.J. Falster, J. Appl. Phys. 110, 053713 (2011) J.D. Murphy, K. Bothe, V.V. Voronkov, R.J. Falster, Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 042105 (2013) J.D. Murphy, R.E. McGuire, K. Bothe, V.V. Voronkov, R.J. Falster, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 120, 402 (2014) J.D. Murphy, M. Al-Amin, K. Bothe, M. Olmo, V.V. Voronkov, R.J. Falster, J. Appl. Phys. 118, 215706 (2015) F.R.N. Nabarro, H.H. Wills, Proc. Roy. Soc. A 175, 519 (1940) K. Nakai, Y. Inoue, H. Yokota, A. Ikari, J. Takahashi, A. Tachikawa, K. Kitahara, Y. Ohta, W. Ohashi, J. Appl. Phys. 89, 4301 (2001) R.C. Newman, J.H. Tucker, A.R. Brown, S.A. McQuaid, J. Appl. Phys. 70, 3061 (1991) H. Ono, T. Ishizuka, C. Kato, K. Arafune, Y. Ohshita, A. Ogura, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 49, 110202 (2010) G. Pensl, M. Schulz, K. Hölzlein, W. Bergholz, J.L. Hutchison, Appl. Phys. A 48, 49 (1989) M. Pesola, Y.J. Lee, J. von Boehm, M. Kaukonen, R.M. Nieminen, Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 5343 (2000) B. Pivac, A. Sassella, A. Borghesi, Mater. Sci. Eng. B 36, 53 (1996) S. Pizzini, M. Acciarri, E. Leoni, A. Le Donne, Phys. Stat. Sol. (B) 222, 141 (2000) V. Quemener, B. Raeissi, F. Herklotz, L.I. Murin, E.V. Monakhov, B.G. Svensson, Phys. Stat. Sol. B 251, 2197 (2014) V. Quemener, B. Raeissi, F. Herklotz, L.I. Murin, E.V. Monakhov, B.G. Svensson, J. Appl. Phys. 118, 135703 (2015) M. Ramamoorthy, S.T. Pantelides, Solid State Commun. 106, 243 (1998) A. Richter, S.W. Glunz, F. Werner, J. Schmidt, Phys. Rev. B 86, 165202 (2012) A. Sassella, A. Borghesi, P. Garanzani, G. Borionetti, Appl. Phys. Lett. 75, 1131 (1999) K. Schmalz, P. Gaworzewski, Phys. Stat. Sol. (A) 64, 151 (1981) J. Schmidt, K. Bothe, Phys. Rev. B 69, 024107 (2004) F. Shimura, Semicond. Semimet. 42, 621 (1966) F. Shimura, J. Appl. Phys. 59, 3251 (1986) E. Simoen, Y.L. Huang, Y. Ma, J. Lauwaert, P. Clauws, J.M. Raﬁ, A. Ulyashin, C. Claeys, J. Electrochem. Soc. 156, H434 (2009) 14 Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 435 L.C. Snyder, J.W. Corbett, P. Deak, R. Wu, Mat. Res. Soc. Proc. 104, 179 (1988) H.J. Stein, S. Hahn, J. Appl. Phys. 75, 3477 (1994) H.J. Stein, S.K. Hahn, S.C. Shatas, J. Appl. Phys. 59, 3495 (1986) K. Sueoka, M. Akatsuka, M. Yonemura, T. Ono, E. Asayama, H. Katahama, J. Electrochem. Soc. 147, 756 (2000) Q. Sun, K.H. Yao, H.C. Gatos, J. Lagowski, J. Appl. Phys. 71, 3760 (1992) D. Suwito, U. Jager, J. Benick, S. Janz, M. Hermle, S.W. Glunz, IEEE Trans. Electron. Devices 57, 2032 (2010) B.G. Svensson, J.L. Lindström, Phys. Stat. Sol. (A) 95, 537 (1986) R. Swaroop, N. Kim, W. Lin, M. Bullis, L. Shive, A. Rice, E. Castel, M. Christ, Solid State Technol. 3, 8589 (1987) T. Tachibana, K. Nakamura, A. Ogura, Y. Ohshita, T. Shimoda, I. Masada, E. Nishijima, AIPAdv. 7, 045111 (2017) M. Tajima, H. Takeno, T. Abe, Mat. Sci. Forum 8387, 1327 (1991) M. Tajima, M. Warashina, H. Takeno, T. Abe, Appl. Phys. Lett. 65, 222 (1994) M. Tajima, Y. Iwata, F. Okayama, H. Toyota, H. Onodera, T. Sekiguchi, J. Appl. Phys. 111, 113523 (2012) H. Takeno, Y. Hayamizu, K. Miki, J. Appl. Phys. 84, 3113 (1998) Y. Tokuda, N. Kobayashi, A. Usami, Y. Inoue, M. Imura, J. Appl. Phys. 66, 3651 (1989) Y. Tokuda, T. Shimokata, Y. Inoue, A. Usami, M. Imura, Semicond. Sci. Technol. 6, 66 (1991) M. Tomassini, J. Veirman, R. Varache, E. Letty, S. Dubois, Y. Yu, Ø. Nielsen, J. Appl. Phys. 119, 084508 (2016) K. Torigoe, T. Ono, J. Appl. Phys. 121, 215103 (2017) V.J.B. Torres, J. Coutinho, R. Jones, M. Barroso, S. Öberg, P.R. Briddon, Physica B 376377, 109 (2006) L. Tsetseries, S. Wang, S.T. Pantelides, Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 051916 (2006) J. Vanhellemont, J. Appl. Phys. 78, 4297 (1995) J. Vanhellemont, E. Simoen, A. Kaniava, M. Libezny, C. Claeys, J. Appl. Phys. 77, 5669 (1995) J. Vanhellemont, K. Nakamura, E. Kamiyama, K. Sueoka, in Defects and Impurities in Silicon Materials, Lecture Notes in Physics, vol.916, ed. by Y. Yoshida G. Langouche (Springer Tokyo, 2015), pp. 181240 V.V. Voronkov, J. Cryst. Growth 59, 625 (1982) V.V. Voronkov, R. Falster, J. Appl. Phys. 91, 5802 (2002) V.V. Voronkov, G.I. Voronkova, A.V. Batunina, R. Falster, V.N. Golovina, A.S. Guliaeva, N.B. Tiurina, M.G. Milvidski, J. Electrochem. Soc. 147, 3899 (2000) V.V. Voronkov, G.I. Voronkova, A.V. Batunina, R. Falster, V.N. Golovina, A.S. Guliaeva, N.B. Tiurina, M.G. Milvidski, Solid State Phenom. 131133, 387 (2008) K. Wada, N. Inoue, Electrochem. Soc. Proc. 864, 778 (1986) P. Wagner, J. Hage, Appl. Phys. A 49, 123 (1989) W. Wijaranakula, Appl. Phys. Lett. 59, 1608 (1991) D. Wruck, P. Gaworzewski, Phys. Stat. Sol. (A) 56, 557 (1979) Z. Xi, J. Tang, H. Deng, D. Yang, D. Que, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 91, 1688 (2007) D. Yang, H.J. Möller, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 72, 541 (2002) X. Yu, D. Yang, X. Ma, J. Yang, L. Li, D. Que, J. Appl. Phys. 92, 188 (2002) S. Zhang, M. Juel, E.J. Øvrelid, G. Tranell, J. Cryst. Growth 411, 63 (2015) J. Zhao, A. Wang, M.A. Green, Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 7, 471 (1999) M. Zschorsch, R. Hölzl, H. Rüfer, H.J. Möller, W. von Ammon, Solid State Phenom. 9596, 71 (2004) 436 G. Kissinger Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 15 Bing Gao and Koichi Kakimoto Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 438 Mechanism of Carbon Incorporation ........................................................... 440 Simulation of Carbon Impurity (Reproduced with Permission from J. Electrochem. Soc., 157 H153 (2010). Copyright 2010, The Electrochemical Society) ............................ 440 Models for Global Heat Transfer ............................................................ 441 Models for Argon Gas Flow ................................................................. 442 Models for Impurity Transport .............................................................. 443 Distribution of Impurities .................................................................... 446 Effect of Argon Gas Flow Rate ............................................................. 447 Effect of Argon Gas Pressure ................................................................ 447 Reduction of Carbon Impurity .................................................................. 449 Crucible Cover Design (Reproduced with Permission from J. Cryst. Growth, 312 (9), 15721576, Copyright 2010, Elsevier) ................................................. 449 Crucible Cover Material Design (Reproduced with Permission from J. Cryst. Growth, 318 (1), 255258, Copyright 2011, Elsevier) ............................................... 451 Reaction Control Between Silica Crucible and Graphite Susceptor (Reproduced with Permission from J. Cryst. Growth, 314(1), 239245, Copyright 2011, Elsevier) .......... 456 Conclusions ...................................................................................... 459 References ....................................................................................... 461 Abstract Carbon impurity contamination during growth of crystalline silicon has been system- atically studied in a representative unidirectional furnace. Mechanism of carbon incorporation into silicon has been illuminated. To better understand the carbon B. Gao (*) The Institute of Technological Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China e-mail: gaobing@whu.edu.cn K. Kakimoto RIAM, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan e-mail: kakimoto@riam.kyushu-u.ac.jp  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_21 437 contamination process, a global simulation in a unidirectional solidiﬁcation furnace was implemented. The effects of ﬂow rate and pressure on impurities were examined. To reduce carbon contamination, an improved unidirectional solidiﬁcation furnace with a crucible cover was designed. Results show that this improvement enables the production of a high-purity multicrystalline silicon crystal in a unidirectional solidiﬁcation furnace. In addition, the material of crucible cover has a great inﬂuence on carbon contamination. Another possible contamination mechanism due to the reaction between silica crucible and the graphite susceptor has also been given. Results show that the crucible reaction with graphite susceptor has a marked effect on carbon impurity in the crystal. Keywords Carbon contamination  Crystalline silicon  Global simulation  Unidirectional solidiﬁcation furnace  Argon gas ﬂow rate  Argon gas pressure  Crucible cover  Cover material  Reaction between silica crucible and graphite susceptor Introduction Carbon contamination in crystalline silicon is always a problem in many growth systems, particularly in unidirectional solidiﬁcation and Czochralski (Cz) processes. Despite these problems, unidirectional solidiﬁcation and Czochralski processes remain the dominant growth technology for crystalline silicon. Carbon is one of the major impurities in crystalline silicon. The carbon concentration, existing as substitutional atoms, is electrically inactive, but it can strongly affect the density and electrical activity of dislocations in multicrystalline silicon (Kishino et al. 1979; Pizzini et al. 1988). When the concentration of carbon exceeds its solubility limit in silicon, it will precipitate to form silicon carbide (SiC) particles, which can cause severe ohmic shunts in solar cells and result in nucleation of new grains in silicon ingots (Bauer et al. 2006). Carbon, oxygen, and SiC particles in a solidiﬁed silicon ingot can cause signiﬁcant deterioration of the conversion efﬁciency of solar cells. If the carbon concentration exceeds 1  1016 atoms/cm3, it will markedly inﬂuence the precipitation of oxygen during thermal annealing of crystals and during device processing of the wafers cut from these crystals (Bornside and Brown 1995; Fukuda et al. 1994; Sun et al. 1990; Ogino 1982; Kolbesen 1983; Goesele and Mikkelsen 1986; Shimura 1989). In addition, carbon impurity may exert considerable indirect effect on impurity gettering, warpage, and slip of wafers during the processing. Control of carbon levels in crystalline silicon is essential for the yield and performance of solar cells and VLSI devices. The carbon contamination mainly originates from two stages of crystal growth: heating/melting stage and growth stage. Baker (1969) has studied the carbon con- tamination of Cz crystals grown under various conditions during melting stage. The results show that carbon content increased with the melting time. Raabe et al. (2011) studied the carbon contamination during casting multicrystalline silicon in vertical 438 B. Gao and K. Kakimoto Bridgman furnace. The results show that carbon monoxide in furnace chamber ﬁrst increases promptly at the heating stage and then rapidly decreases at the melting/ homogenization stage. The carbon contamination during growth stage (Machida et al. 1998, 2000; Reimann et al. 2007; Higasa et al. 2016; Nagai et al. 2014) has also been experimentally explored. Proposals for reduction carbon contamination, such as SiC coating, mass ﬂow and pressure control of argon gas, and geometry structure improvement, have been put forward. The process of carbon impurity contamination during the growth of crystalline silicon is complicated. It always accompanies with the transport and chemical reaction of oxygen impurity in system. To ﬁnd efﬁcient approach for the reduction of carbon contamination, experimental exploration is usually adopted but always a time-consuming and high-cost work, and the acquired data are not easy to analyze due to the nonlinear system. Developments in computer technology have made it possible to simulate the global environments of crystal growth and ﬁnd techniques for improving the purity of crystals. Many simulations of impurity transport have been done (Bornside and Brown 1995; Kobayashi 1991; Hirata and Hoshikawa 1992; Kinney and Brown 1993; Kakimoto et al. 1996; Yi et al. 1996; Watanabe et al. 1999; Reimann et al. 2008; Li et al. 2004; Smirnov and Kalaev 2008, 2009); however, most of them were local simulations (Bornside and Brown 1995; Kobayashi 1991; Hirata and Hoshikawa 1992; Kinney and Brown 1993; Kakimoto et al. 1996; Yi et al. 1996; Watanabe et al. 1999; Reimann et al. 2008) that neglected gas transport of impurities. There have been a few studies using global simulations (Li et al. 2004; Smirnov and Kalaev 2008, 2009). However, the oxygen and carbon impurities in the silicon melt were neglected in one of those studies (Li et al. 2004), and the carbon impurity in both gas and silicon melt was neglected in the other studies (Smirnov and Kalaev 2008, 2009). There have been few simulations that took into account not only the oxygen impurity but also the carbon impurity in both cooling gas and silicon melt. We therefore developed a set of analysis system that includes all of processes in crystal growth. This set of analysis system incorporates the silicon melt ﬂow into the global simulation of Bornside and Brown (1995). The original boundary assumption of constant SiO concentration at the melt surface (Bornside and Brown 1995) is replaced by a dynamic update of SiO concentration. Therefore, this set of analysis system enables reasonable prediction of the oxygen and carbon impurity in a crystal. Another assumption of the equilibrium system in the melt (Bornside and Brown 1995), i.e., the carbon ﬂux from the gas into the melt being equal to that from the melt into the crystal, is also replaced by a local nonequilibrium consideration. The carbon ﬂux at the gas/melt interface is calculated locally and thus carbon accumu- lation in the melt is included. Therefore, the present simulation might be able to correct the difference between the simulation data and experimental data (Bornside and Brown 1995). Considering the similar mechanism in carbon contamination in both unidirec- tional solidiﬁcation furnace and Cz furnace, we will use unidirectional furnace to clarify the following problems using numerical simulations: How to reduce carbon impurities in crystalline silicon? 15 Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 439 Mechanism of Carbon Incorporation Before numerical simulation, the mechanism of carbon impurity incorporation into crystal has to been known. Based on the previous work of Bornside and Brown (1995) in Cz furnace, basic incorporation processes of carbon impurity into a crystal in a unidirectional solidiﬁcation furnace are shown in Fig. 1. First, the quartz crucible (SiO2) is dissolved and the oxygen atoms enter into the Si melt. Secondly the dissolved oxygen atoms are transported to the gas/melt interface and evaporate as SiO gas. Then the SiO gas is carried away by the argon gas ﬂow and reacts with all of the graphite components to produce gas-phase CO. After that the resultant CO is transported back to the melt surface by diffusion or convection and dissolves within the melt. Finally, the C and O atoms are segregated into the crystal (Bornside and Brown 1995). Simulation of Carbon Impurity (Reproduced with Permission from J. Electrochem. Soc., 157 H153 (2010). Copyright 2010, The Electrochemical Society) To correctly simulate the impurity transport inside furnace, all of phenomena occurs in the growth furnace should be included. For example, incompressible ﬂow of silicon melt, compressible ﬂow of argon gas, heat transfer inside solid components, Fig. 1 Basic processes of carbon incorporation into a crystal 440 B. Gao and K. Kakimoto heater radiation inside all enclosures, species transport inside melt and gas ﬂow, and all chemical reactions described in the above. Our simulation implementation involves three steps: ﬁrst, the temperature distri- bution of furnace components due to heat transfer and heat radiation is computed without gas ﬂow; second, the ﬂow ﬁeld and temperature ﬁeld of the cooling argon gas are computed using the temperature boundary conditions from the ﬁrst step; and third, carbon and oxygen impurities in the gas and melt are computed using the ﬂow ﬁeld and temperature ﬁeld from the second step. Models for Global Heat Transfer For our studies, a unidirectional solidiﬁcation furnace is assumed to be axisymmet- ric. All of the components of the furnace are subdivided into a set of block regions, each of which is covered with a structured grid. The conﬁgurations of the furnace and its computational grids for gas ﬂow are shown in Fig. 2. In Fig. 2, the crucible 3 is made of quartz and the crucible 4 is made of carbon; the heat shields 711, the heaters 1215, and the pedestal 5 are made of carbon; the pedestal 6 are made of steel. The inner and outer radiuses of crucible 3 are 53.7 and 56.7 mm, respectively, and its height is 196 mm. Global modeling of heat transfer in the furnace involves convective heat transfer of the melt in the crucible, conductive heat transfer in all solid components, and Fig. 2 Conﬁguration of the unidirectional solidiﬁcation furnace and subblocks (right) of domain decomposition and structured grids (left) in every subblock for heat transfer simulation 15 Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 441 radiation heat transfer in all enclosures of the furnace. The melt ﬂow in the crucible is assumed to be an incompressible laminar ﬂow. The radiative heat exchange in all radiative enclosures is modeled on the basis of the assumption of diffuse-gray surface radiation. The basic time step for the growth system is taken to be 30 s. During this time step, all processes are assumed to reach a steady state. The convective cooling by argon gas is neglected in the computation of thermal ﬁelds. For details of the global heat transfer, refer to Liu and Kakimoto (2005). Models for Argon Gas Flow The ﬂow of argon gas through the furnace is considered to be a compressible and axisymmetric ﬂow. The compressible ﬂow solver can accurately simulate the buoyancy-driven ﬂow due to the large density variation in the furnace. Although the ﬂow velocity in this furnace is low, yet the density variation is signiﬁcant for this buoyancy-driven ﬂow, which is similar as combustion problem. If incompressible ﬂow solver is used, Boussinesq approximation should be included; however, this approximation can introduce errors of the order of 1% if the temperature differences are below 15 degree for air. This error may be more substantial if the temperature differences are higher than 15 degree; it may even be qualitatively wrong if the temperature differences become much higher. In present furnace, the temperature differences are rather large varying from 350 K at the gas inlet to 1722 K at the melt surface. Thus, incompressible solver is not appropriate. On the other hand, absolute pressure of gas ﬂow should be given for calculating the diffusivities of SiO and CO. However, incompressible ﬂow solver cannot provide this absolute value. Therefore, compressible ﬂow solver is a best choice. Similar to the simulation of global heat transfer, the ﬂow domain is subdivided into a set of block regions, each of which is covered with a structured grid. The radius of the inlet and width of the outlet for the simulation are 3.5 mm and 4 mm, respectively. Full Navier-Stokes equations without any assumptions are used. The conservative compressible Navier-Stokes equations for axisymmetric geometry are described in detail in the book (Hoffmann and Chiang 2000). A second-order total variation diminishing (TVD) scheme is used for convection terms and Davis-Yee symmetric TVD is used for the ﬂux limiter vectors (Hoffmann and Chiang 2000). An entropy correction term is also introduced to satisfy the entropy condition. A fourth-order Runge-Kutta scheme is used for time marching and a central difference scheme is used for viscous terms. Local time step (Hoffmann and Chiang 2000) and low Mach number acceleration technique (Jenny and Müller 1999) are adopted for efﬁciency. The domain-decomposition method is used to solve the whole ﬂow ﬁeld. The temperatures at all solid surfaces are set to the values computed from the global heat transfer. The velocities at all solid surfaces are set to zero. For the conditions at inlet and outlet, different methods can be used according to our practical tests. For axisymmetric and subsonic inﬂow, three characteristic lines enter into the domain and, therefore, three analytical boundary conditions are 442 B. Gao and K. Kakimoto speciﬁed. The remaining one is evaluated on the basis of information from the interior points near the inlet. For subsonic outﬂow, one characteristic line enters into the computation domain from the outside and, thus, one analytical boundary condition is given and others are evaluated from the interior points near the outlet. For the ﬁrst simulation, inlet ﬂow rate Q is set to 0.8 liter/min, inlet static temperature T is set to 350 K, and inlet tangential velocity u is set to zero. The outlet static pressure p is set to 0.1 atm. The ﬂow ﬁeld in the whole furnace can refer to the paper (Gao et al. 2010a). The local ﬂow ﬁeld above the melt is shown in Fig. 3. The recirculation above the melt brings SiO from the gas/melt interface to the top convection ﬂow and takes back CO from the top convection ﬂow to the gas/melt interface. Models for Impurity Transport As stated in section Mechanism of Carbon Incorporation, there are mainly two impurities in argon gas, CO, and SiO. The concentration ﬁelds of SiO and CO gas are assumed to be diluted in the argon gas and are computed using the temperature and ﬂow ﬁelds. The equations for conservation of moles are written in dimensional form as @cSiO @t þ  cSiO u! Ar   ¼  cArDSiOcSiO cAr     , (1) Fig. 3 Stream function of gas ﬂow above the melt at a ﬂow rate of 0.8 liter/min and pressure of 0.1 atm 15 Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 443 @cCO @t þ  cCO u! Ar   ¼  cArDCOcCO cAr     , (2) where cSiO is the molar concentration of SiO gas, cCO is the molar concentration of CO gas, and cAr is the molar concentration of argon gas. The vector u! Ar is the ﬂow vector of argon gas. The diffusivities DSiO and DCO in Eqs. (1) and (2) depend on temperature and pressure (Bornside and Brown 1995; Reid et al. 1987): DSiO ¼ aSiO T1:75 p , (3) DCO ¼ aCO T 1:75 p , (4) where aSiO = 0.862611 and aCO = 1.79548 if D, T, and p are measured in cm2/s, K, and dyn/cm2, respectively. Similarly, the concentrations of oxygen and carbon atoms in the melt are modeled as @cC @t þ  cC u! Si   ¼  cSiDCcC cSi     , (5) @cO @t þ  cO u! Si   ¼  cSiDOcO cSi     , (6) where cC is the molar concentration of carbon atoms in the melt, cO is the molar concentration of oxygen atoms in the melt, and cSi is the molar concentration of silicon atoms. The vector u! Si is the ﬂow vector of silicon melt. DO and DC are diffusivities of oxygen and carbon in the melt, respectively. Their values are taken to be 5.0  108m2/s (Liu et al. 2007). For every chemical reaction, a detailed illumination is given. The ﬁrst is the dissolution of the quartz crucible, SiO2 sð Þ $ Si m ð Þ þ 2O m ð Þ: (7) In this chapter, the index symbol (s) denotes solid, (m) denotes melt, (g) denotes gas, (l) denotes liquid, and (c) denotes crystal. For a unidirectional solidiﬁcation furnace, the equilibrium concentration of oxygen atoms cO on the wall of the quartz crucible is expressed as (Matsuo et al. 2008). cO ¼ b 1  b  0:5  1023 atom=cm3  , b ¼ 1:32  exp 7150 T  6:99   : (8) 444 B. Gao and K. Kakimoto The oxygen atoms in the melt are then transported to the melt/gas interface by convection or diffusion. At the interface, they combine with silicon atoms to form SiO gas, that is, O m ð Þ þ Si lð Þ $ SiO g ð Þ: (9) The equilibrium relationship between the concentration of SiO(g) and the con- centration of O(m) is given in the paper (Bornside and Brown 1995): cSiO ¼ 101325 RT cO cSi e21000=Tþ17:8, (10) where R is the universal gas constant, which is equal to 8.314 J  K1  mol1. The third is the transportation of SiO(g) in argon ﬂow. When SiO(g) comes into contact with the hot carbon surfaces during the transportation, it reacts with them, SiO g ð Þ þ 2C sð Þ $ CO g ð Þ þ SiC sð Þ: (11) The free energy change ΔG of the reaction in Eq. (11) is expressed as (Bornside and Brown 1995). ΔG ¼ 81300 þ 3:02T J=mol ð Þ forT  1640K, ΔG ¼ 22100  33:1T J=mol ð Þ for1640K  T  1687K, ΔG ¼ 72100  3:44T J=mol ð Þ forT  1687K: (12) The equilibrium constant of the reaction in Eq. (11) can be obtained as K = eΔG/RT. The rate constant for the forward direction kforward is assumed to be large enough (kforward = 106 cm/s) and the rate constant for the reverse direction is computed from the relation kreverse = kforward/K (Bornside and Brown 1995). This extremely large forward rate constant corresponds to small carbon concentration in crystal as pointed out by Bornside and Brown (1995). After obtaining the rate constants, we can use them to obtain the ﬂux relations at hot carbon surfaces:  n!  cDSiOcSiO c   h i ¼ kforwardcSiO  kreversecCO, (13a)  n!  cDCOcCO c   h i ¼ kreversecCO  kforwardcSiO, (13b) where the unit vector n! points outward from the gas ﬁeld, and kforward and kreverse are dimensional forward and reverse rate constants, respectively. The fourth is the transportation of the product CO back to the gas/melt interface in the argon ﬂow. At the interface, the CO gas dissolves into the melt according to the reaction CO g ð Þ $ C m ð Þ þ O m ð Þ: (14) 15 Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 445 The equilibrium relationship between the above reactants and resultants is given as (Bornside and Brown 1995). cCO ¼ 101325 RT cO cSi cC cSi e5210=Tþ14:5: (15) The ﬁfth is the segregation of carbon and oxygen from the melt into the crystal. The equilibrium expression is C m ð Þ $ C c ð Þ, (16) O m ð Þ $ O c ð Þ: (17) We use C(c) = kCsegC(m) and O(c) = kOsegO(m) with kCseg = 0.07 (Bornside and Brown 1995) and kOseg = 0.85 (Hoshikawa and Huang 2000). Equations (10) and (15) can be regarded as boundary conditions for the gas/melt interface. Other than those, two extra boundary conditions are required for solving the four unknowns cSiO, cCO, cO, and cC at that interface. We introduce the conser- vation of moles for carbon and oxygen. That means the ﬂux of oxygen and carbon at that interface should satisfy the following: Foroxygen cArDSiOcSiO cAr   þ cArDCOcCO cAr   ¼ cSiDOcO cSi   , (18) Forcarbon cArDCOcCO cAr   ¼ cSi DCcC cSi   : (19) Except for the above speciﬁcations, other boundary conditions in gas and melt are given. For noncarbon walls in gas, zero ﬂuxes of SiO(g) and CO(g) are applied; for the gas inlet, the concentrations of SiO(g) and CO(g) are set to zero; for the gas outlet, zero gradients of them are used and for the melt/crucible wall, zero ﬂux of C(m) is used. Distribution of Impurities The CO(g) in gas and C(m) in melt are shown in Figs. 4 and 5. The maximum CO concentration in gas is about 109 mol/cm3. The minimum CO concentration is about 1010 mol/cm3, which lies on the melt surface. The concentration of CO is large in the top half of the furnace except inside the crucible and small in the bottom half of the furnace. The basic order of C(m) concentration is about 10+18atom/cm3, which is the same as the experimental result reported by Ganesh et al. (2008). The concentration of C(m) in the melt is large at the top of the melt and small at the bottom of the melt. This distribution is consistent with the process in which CO(g) is ﬁrst absorbed and dissolved in the melt and then carbon is transported to the bottom by convection or diffusion. 446 B. Gao and K. Kakimoto Effect of Argon Gas Flow Rate The effect of ﬂow rate through the furnace on carbon concentrations in the crystal was tested. The inlet static temperature was ﬁxed at 350 K and the outlet static pressure was ﬁxed at 0.1 atm. The simulations were performed with ﬂow rates of 0.8, 1.6, 2.4, 3.2, and 4.0 liter/min. The variations of carbon concentrations with ﬂow rates at a speciﬁc point are shown in Fig. 6. A measured carbon concentration in crystal is added to Fig. 6 to afﬁrm whether our calculation is quantitatively close to realistic value. As the ﬂow rate is increased byﬁvefold from 0.8 liter/min to 4.0 liter/min, the carbon concentration in the crystal decreases by six fold from 3.28  1017 atom/cm3 to 0.54  1017 atom/ cm3. Thus, an increase in ﬂow rate can obviously reduce the carbon impurity in the crystal. Effect of Argon Gas Pressure The effect of furnace pressure on carbon impurities was examined. The mass ﬂux at the inlet was ﬁxed at 7.68  105 kg/min and the inlet static temperature was ﬁxed at 350 K. The simulations was implemented with outlet pressures of 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, Fig. 4 CO concentration in gas 15 Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 447 and 0.5 atm. The variations of carbon concentrations with pressures at a speciﬁc point are shown in Fig. 7. When the pressure is increased from 0.2 atm to 0.5 atm, the carbon concentration remains almost constant. Thus, an increase in pressure does not obviously reduce the carbon impurity in the crystal. Fig. 5 Carbon atom concentration in the melt flow rate (liter/min) carbon,1017(atom/cm3) 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5 5.0 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 measured calculated Fig. 6 Carbon atom concentration in the crystal with different argon gas ﬂow rate 448 B. Gao and K. Kakimoto Carbon concentration in the crystal is mainly determined by the ﬂow conditions at the gap between crucible 3 and heater 12 shown in Fig. 2. An increase in pressure causes a reduction of outgoing velocity at that gap, and it therefore becomes easier for CO(g) to diffuse toward the inside of the crucible. However, the diffusivity of CO is reduced due to the increase in pressure according to Eq. (4). Thus, the effect of resistance reduction is offset by the effect of diffusivity reduction for CO(g). Pressure therefore has no great effect on the carbon concentration in the crystal. Reduction of Carbon Impurity Figure 3 shows that there is a recirculation ﬂow above the melt surface and a main convection ﬂow passing through the top of the crucible. The back-diffusion of CO from the outside of crucible into the melt is hindered by the top convection ﬂow. Therefore, if the top convection ﬂow is strengthened, in addition to elimination of the recirculation ﬂow, CO transportation into the melt might be dramatically reduced. It can be seen from Fig. 3 that CO is transported into the melt mainly by diffusion ﬂux that passes through the area AB. If the diffusion area is markedly reduced, CO ﬂux into the melt can be signiﬁcantly reduced. An optimized design according to the above analysis is given in the following section. Crucible Cover Design (Reproduced with Permission from J. Cryst. Growth, 312(9), 15721576, Copyright 2010, Elsevier) To reduce the carbon impurity, the gas tube is extended to form a cover as shown in Fig. 8. The cover material can be made of graphite, tungsten, or molybdenum. pressure (atm) carbon,1017(atom/cm3) 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 3 3.1 3.2 3.3 3.4 3.5 calculated measured Fig. 7 Carbon atom concentration in the crystal with different argon gas pressure 15 Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 449 The distance h between the cover and the melt surface is variable. Global simulation of impurity transport was carried out for h = 28, 49, and 105 mm. The third case (h = 105 mm) corresponds to the old furnace that has no cover. All of the calculations show the same inlet and outlet conditions. The carbon concentration distributions (CO in gas and C atoms in melt) for the old furnace can be referred to the paper (Gao et al. 2010a). The basic order of CO concentration in gas is 109 mol/cm3. The carbon concentration in the melt is 1018 atom/cm3, which is close to 106 mol/cm3. Here, we use the relation 1 mol = 0.622  1024 atoms. Thus, for the old furnace, the carbon concentration in the melt is much larger than that in the gas. For two new furnace cases of different h values, the C distributions are shown in Fig. 9a, b. The carbon concentrations in the melt show almost the same order as those in the gas. In the cases of distances of 28 and 49 mm, both the basic orders of carbon concentrations in the melt are 109 mol/cm3. Thus, smaller carbon concen- trations are obtained in the melt compared to that in the old case (106 mol/cm3) (Gao et al. 2010a). If the segregation relation for carbon atoms is considered, the carbon concentra- tion for a chosen position in the crystal is given in Fig. 10. The basic order of carbon concentration in the crystal for the old furnace was 1017 atom/cm3. Compared to that, the basic order for the improved furnace is 10131014 atom/cm3, which is of a negligible quantity in crystal growth. Fig. 8 Improved design of a unidirectional solidiﬁcation furnace 450 B. Gao and K. Kakimoto Crucible Cover Material Design (Reproduced with Permission from J. Cryst. Growth, 318 (1), 255258, Copyright 2011, Elsevier) The carbon concentration can be reduced with the gas shield design. The choice of material of the gas shield is important. Some depositions such as SiC particles are possible if the gas SiO reacts with the gas shield. A drop of deposited material can Fig. 9 (a) Carbon concentration distribution (CO in gas and C in melt) for the improved furnace at h = 28 mm. (b) Carbon concentration distribution (CO in gas and C in melt) for the improved furnace at h = 49 mm 15 Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 451 affect the quality of silicon growth. Therefore, the material of the gas shield should have chemical inertia and a high melting point so that the gas SiO has almost no reaction with it. For example, when the cover is made from graphite, evaporated SiO gas comes into contact with the hot carbon cover, and it reacts with them: SiO g ð Þ þ 2C sð Þ $ CO g ð Þ þ SiC sð Þ: (20) Then the product CO gas can be transported back to the gas/melt interface in the argon ﬂow. At the interface, the CO gas dissolves into the melt according to the reaction: CO g ð Þ $ C m ð Þ þ O m ð Þ: (21) Therefore, there are two sources for carbon impurity in a crystal. One is the carbon cover inside the crucible and the other is the graphite components of the furnace outside the crucible. When the cover is made from tungsten or molybdenum, the evaporated SiO gas does not have a chemical reaction with the cover. Therefore, the only source of carbon in the crystal is the graphite components of furnace outside the crucible. The CO concentration in gas and the C atom concentration in melt for the improved furnace with a tungsten cover at h = 28 mm are shown in Figs. 11 and 12, respectively. Figure 11 shows that the basic order of the CO gas concentra- tion is 1010 mol/cm3 outside the crucible and it is 1013 mol/cm3 inside the crucible. Figure 12 shows that the carbon concentration in most of the melt is 1014 atoms/cm3. Therefore, for furnace with tungsten cover, the CO concentration inside the crucible is three orders smaller than that outside the crucible. distance h (mm) carbon concentration (atom/cm3) 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 1018 1017 1016 1015 1014 1013 improvedfurnace oldfurnace Fig. 10 Comparison of carbon concentrations in the crystal for the improved and old furnaces 452 B. Gao and K. Kakimoto The CO concentration in gas and the C atom concentration in melt for the improved furnace with a carbon cover at h = 28 mm are shown in Figs. 13 and 14, respectively. From Fig. 13, it can be seen that the basic order of the CO gas concentration is 109 mol/cm3 outside the crucible and it is 1010 mol/cm3 inside the crucible. Figure 14 shows that the carbon concentration in most of the melt is 1017 atoms/cm3. Therefore, for furnace with carbon cover, the CO concentration inside the crucible is only one order smaller than that outside the crucible. From Figs. 11, 12, 13, and 14, it can be seen that the reaction of carbon cover obviously increases the CO concentration inside the crucible from 1013 mol/cm3 to 1010 mol/cm3 and increases the C impurity in the melt from 1014 atoms/cm3 to 1017 atoms/cm3. It has been reported (Gao et al. 2010a) that for the old furnace without the cover, the basic order of the carbon concentration in the melt is 1018 atoms/cm3. Therefore, the carbon concentration in melt with carbon cover (1017 atoms/cm3) is much larger than that with tungsten cover (1014 atoms/cm3), but smaller than that without any cover (1018 atoms/cm3). If the segregation relation for carbon atoms is considered, the carbon concentra- tion in crystal along the center axial line of crucible is given in Fig. 15. The basic Fig. 11 CO concentration distribution in gas for the improved furnace with a tungsten cover at h = 28 mm 15 Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 453 Fig. 12 C concentration distribution in melt for the improved furnace with a tungsten cover at h = 28 mm Fig. 13 CO concentration distribution in gas for the improved furnace with a carbon cover at h = 28 mm 454 B. Gao and K. Kakimoto order of carbon concentration in the crystal for the furnace without cover is 10171018 atoms/cm3. The basic order for the improved furnace with a tungsten cover is 10131014 atoms/cm3, which is of a negligible quantity in crystal growth. Fig. 14 C concentration distribution in melt for the improved furnace with a carbon cover at h = 28 mm height of crystal (mm) carbon concentration (atoms/cm3) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 1018 1017 1016 1015 1014 1013 Furnace without cover Furnace with carbon cover Furnace with tungsten cover Fig. 15 Comparison of carbon concentrations in the crystal for the old furnace and improved furnaces with different cover materials 15 Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 455 However, the carbon impurity for the improved furnace with a carbon cover is 10161017 atoms/cm3, which is much higher than that in the case with a tungsten cover. Therefore, the material of the cover has a large effect on impurity in multi- crystalline silicon. Since a high-purity silicon crystal is required with low cost, we propose a compromise to design the cover. We still use carbon material to design the cover, but we deposit a thin layer of tungsten or tungsten carbide on the surface. This method can save cost and enables a crystal of high purity to be obtained; further- more, this method can prevent SiC particles falling down to the melt surface. Reaction Control Between Silica Crucible and Graphite Susceptor (Reproduced with Permission from J. Cryst. Growth, 314(1), 239245, Copyright 2011, Elsevier) Another Origin of Carbon Impurities In previous sections, the carbon impurity is mainly caused by the reaction between SiO gas and graphite components of the furnace. However, there is another source of carbon impurity, which might be caused by the direction reaction between graphite susceptor and silica crucible. Figure 16 shows the structure of the silica crucible and the graphite susceptor used in this study. The reactions around the corner, where there are three materials, i.e., the silica crucible, the graphite susceptor, and the gas, can be expressed as C sð Þ þ SiO2 sð Þ $ SiO g ð Þ þ CO g ð Þ: (22) Fig. 16 Conﬁgurations of the silica crucible and the graphite susceptor in a unidirectional solidiﬁcation furnace 456 B. Gao and K. Kakimoto Around the corner, the graphite susceptor can also react with SiO gas evaporated from the melt/gas interface: 2C sð Þ þ SiO g ð Þ $ SiC sð Þ þ CO g ð Þ: (23) The symbol (g) denotes gas and (s) denotes solid; (l) denotes liquid and (m) denotes species in the melt. The product CO gas in reactions (22) and (23) can be transported back to the gas/melt interface by argon gas and is then dissolved into the melt. Finally, C atoms are incorporated into crystal. Chemical Reaction Model Along the Corner Both of reactions (22) and (23) are considered along the corner. Because of the lack of kinetic data on the heterogeneous reactions, equilibrium reactions are assumed. For effectively modeling the chemical reactions along the corner, a concept of solvent and solute is ﬁrst introduced. As is well known, the melting point of silica is around 1900 K and that of graphite is about 3800 K (Whittaker 1978). Silica is more active during chemical reaction in a high temperature furnace. Therefore, SiO2 (silica) can be approximately considered as a solvent and C atoms from the surface of the graphite susceptor can be approximately regarded as a solute inside the SiO2 solvent. After introduction of the concept of solvent and solute, analysis of the heteroge- neous reactions can be done as follows. The equilibrium constant for the reaction (22) is taken as K1 ¼ aSiO g ð ÞaCO g ð Þ aSiO2 lð ÞaC m ð Þ ¼ eΔG0 1 ð Þ=RT: (24) The activities of species, a, are expressed as aSiO2 lð Þ ¼ 1, aC m ð Þ ¼ cC cSiO2 , aSiO g ð Þ ¼ PSiO g ð Þ 101325 Pa , aCO g ð Þ ¼ PCO g ð Þ 101325 Pa , (25) where cC is the concentration of the C solute in the SiO2 solvent, and cSiO2 is the concentration of the SiO2 solvent, which is set to approximately 43,900 mol/m3 according to its molar mass (0.06 kg/mol) and density (2648 kg/m3) (Greenwood and Earnshaw 1984). The free energy change for reaction (22) in the temperature range from 1300 K to 1800 K is expressed as (Schmid and Khattack 1979). ΔG0 1 ð Þ ¼ 681899  339T J=mol ð Þ: (26) Substitution of Eqs. (25) and (26) into Eq. (24) yields one pressure relationship between the SiO and CO gases: 15 Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 457 PSiO g ð ÞPCO g ð Þ ¼ 1:439e82018:162=Tþ52:775cC: (27) Because the reactants of reaction (23) include the gas phase SiO and the solid phase C, the equilibrium constant for reaction (23) can be taken as K2 ¼ PCO g ð Þ=PSiO g ð Þ ¼ eΔG0 2 ð Þ=RT: (28) The standard free energy change for reaction (23) in the temperature range from 1300 K to 1800 K is expressed as (Schmid and Khattack 1979). ΔG0 2 ð Þ ¼ 600691  335T J=mol ð Þ: (29) Substitution of Eq. (29) into Eq. (28) yields another pressure relationship between the SiO and CO gases: PCO g ð Þ=PSiO g ð Þ ¼ e72250:541=Tþ40:293: (30) From Eqs. (27), and (30), the pressures of the SiO and CO gases are expressed as functions of temperature and C solute concentration in the SiO2 solvent: PCO g ð Þ ¼ 1:200e77134:352=Tþ46:534 ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ cC p , (31) PSiO g ð Þ ¼ 1:200e4883:811=Tþ6:241 ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ cC p : (32) Effect of Crucible Reaction on Carbon Impurity Four calculations were implemented with C solute concentrations of 0.02, 0.1, 0.2, and 0.4 mol/m3. Because of the decoupled calculation between the gas convection and species transport, the entire temperature ﬁeld and the gas convection for all of the calculations are ﬁxed and only species transports are changed for every case. For cC = 0.1 mol/m3, the CO concentration in the gas is shown in Fig. 17. The maximum CO concentration in the gas, which is located at the corner, is 7.07  109 mol/cm3. As reported previously (Gao et al. 2010b), if the reaction between the crucible and the susceptor is neglected, the maximum CO concentration in the gas, which is located below the corner, is 1.53  109 mol/cm3. Therefore, the crucible reaction markedly increases the maximum CO concentration in the gas. To better observe the effect of the crucible reaction on C impurity in the melt, an enlarged ﬁgure near the corner is shown in Fig. 18. It can be clearly seen that the maximum CO concentration is exactly located at the corner. There is a large gradient from the corner to the melt surface, which causes a large carbon ﬂux into the melt from the corner. Therefore, the crucible reaction between the silica crucible and the graphite susceptor is an essential source of carbon impurity in the melt and crystal. If the C solute concentration in the SiO2 solvent is increased to a larger value, the C impurity concentration in the melt should be increased more. Figure 19 shows the 458 B. Gao and K. Kakimoto variation of C impurity concentration at the center of the melt surface with increase in C solute concentration in the SiO2 solvent. It can be seen that C impurity in the melt is markedly increased with increase in C solute concentration, i.e., increase in C activity on the surface of the graphite susceptor. Conclusions Carbon contamination during the growth of crystalline silicon has been examined by numerical simulation. Due to the similar contamination mechanism in unidirectional solidiﬁcation and Cz processes, the simulation was performed only in the unidirec- tional solidiﬁcation furnace. Both gas transport and melt transport were included. Five chemical reactions were considered. The impurity distributions in the gas and melt were given. Results show that an increase in ﬂow rate can obviously reduce carbon impurity in the crystal, and pressure does not have a great effect on carbon contamination. Fig. 17 CO concentration in the gas for C solute concentration of 0.1 mol/m3 in the SiO2 solvent 15 Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 459 Fig. 18 Enlarged CO concentration distribution near the corner for C solute concentration of 0.1 mol/m3 in the SiO2 solvent C solute in solvent (mol/m3) C in silicon melt (atoms/cm3) 0.00 0.10 0.20 0.30 0.40 1.0x10+19 8.0x10+18 6.0x10+18 4.0x10+18 2.0x10+18 0.0x10+00 Fig. 19 Variation of C impurity concentration in the silicon melt with increase in C solute concentration in the SiO2 solvent 460 B. Gao and K. Kakimoto To reduce carbon contamination, an improved unidirectional solidiﬁcation fur- nace with a crucible cover was designed. Global simulations of coupled oxygen and carbon transport show that the carbon concentration in the crystal can be reduced from 1017 atom/cm3 to 1014 atom/cm3. This improvement enables the production of a high-purity multicrystalline silicon crystal in a unidirectional solidiﬁcation furnace. In addition, the material of crucible cover has a great inﬂuence on carbon contam- ination. The results showed that the carbon impurity can be reduced by ten times if the cover is made from carbon and that the carbon impurity can be reduced by 1000 times if the cover is made from tungsten or tungsten carbide. Therefore, an effective and economical method for designing a cover is to use carbon and deposit a thin layer of tungsten or tungsten carbide on it. Another possible contamination mechanism due to the reaction between silica crucible and the graphite susceptor has been examined. Results show that the crucible reaction has a marked effect on carbon impurity in the crystal. When carbon activity on the surface of the graphite susceptor increases, carbon impurity increases rapidly. Thus, setting a free space between the silica crucible and the graphite susceptor to prevent reaction between them is an effective method to further reduce carbon contamination in crystalline silicon. References J.A. Baker, Semiconductor Silicon 1969, ed. by R.R. Haberecht, E.L. Kern (Electrochemical Society, New York, 1969) J. Bauer, O. Breitenstein, J. P. Rakotoniaina, in Proceedings of 21st EUPVSEC, Dresden, 2006, p. 1115 D.E. Bornside, R.A. Brown, J. Electrochem. Soc. 142, 2790 (1995) T. Fukuda, M. Koizuka, A. Ohsawa, J. Electrochem. Soc. 141, 2216 (1994) R.B. Ganesh, H. Matsuo, T. Kawamura, Y. Kangawa, K. Arafune, Y. Ohshita, M. Yamaguchi, K. Kakimoto, J. Cryst Growth 310, 2697 (2008) B. Gao, S. Nakano, K. Kakimoto, Global simulation of coupled carbon and oxygen transport in a unidirectional solidiﬁcation furnace for solar cells. J. Electrochem. Soc. 157(2), H153H159 (2010a) B. Gao, X.J. Chen, S. Nakano, K. Kakimoto, J. Cryst Growth 312, 1572 (2010b) U. Goesele, Oxygen, carbon, hydrogen and nitrogen in crystalline silicon, in Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc., ed. by J. C. Mikkelsen Jr., S. P. Peaton, J. W. Corbett, S. J. Pennycook, (MRS, Pittsburgh, 1986), p. 419 N.N. Greenwood, A. Earnshaw, Chemistry of the Elements (Pergamon, Oxford, 1984), pp. 393399. ISBN 0-08-022057-6 M. Higasa, Y. Nagai, S. Nakagawa, K. Kashima, ECS Trans. 72(4), 57 (2016) H. Hirata, K. Hoshikawa, J. Cryst Growth 125, 181 (1992) K.A. Hoffmann, S.T. Chiang, Computational Fluid Dynamics, vol II (Engineering Education System, Wichita, 2000), p. 69 K. Hoshikawa, X. Huang, Mater. Sci. Eng. B72, 73 (2000) P. Jenny, B. Müller, Comput. Fluids 28, 951 (1999) K. Kakimoto, K.W. Yi, M. Eguchi, J. Cryst Growth 163, 238 (1996) T.A. Kinney, R.A. Brown, J. Crystal Growth 132, 551 (1993) S. Kishino, M. Kanamori, N. Yoshihiro, M. Tajima, I. Lizuka, J. Appl. Phys. 50, 8240 (1979) N. Kobayashi, J. Cryst Growth 108, 240 (1991) 15 Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 461 B.O. Kolbesen, in Aggregation Phenomena of Point Defects in Silicon, ed. by E. Sirtl, J. Goorissen. The Electrochemical Society Proceedings Series, vol 834 (Pennington, 1983), pp. 155175 Y.R. Li, M.W. Li, N. Imaishi, Y. Akiyama, T. Tsukada, J. Cryst Growth 267, 466 (2004) L.J. Liu, K. Kakimoto, Int. J. Heat Mass Transf 48, 4481 (2005) L.J. Liu, S. Nakano, K. Kakimoto, J. Cryst Growth 299, 48 (2007) N. Machida, Y. Suzuki, K. Abe, N. Ono, M. Kida, Y. Shimizu, J. Cryst Growth 186, 362 (1998) N. Machida, K. Hoshikawa, Y. Shimizu, J. Cryst Growth 210, 532 (2000) H. Matsuo, R.B. Ganesh, S. Nakano, L.J. Liu, Y. Kangawa, K. Arafune, Y. Ohshita, M. Yamaguchi, K. Kakimoto, J. Cryst Growth 310, 2204 (2008) Y. Nagai, S. Nakagawa, K. Kashima, J. Cryst Growth 401, 737 (2014) M. Ogino, Appl. Phys. Lett. 41, 847 (1982) S. Pizzini, A. Sandrinelli, M. Beghi, D. Narducci, F. Allegretti, S. Torchio, G. Fabbri, G.P. Ottaviani, F. Demartin, A. Fusi, J. Electrochem. Soc. 135, 155 (1988) L. Raabe, O. Patzold, I. Kupka, J. Ehrig, S. Wurzner, M. Stelter, J. Cryst Growth 318, 234 (2011) R.C. Reid, J.M. Prausnitz, T.K. Sherwood, The Properties of Gases and Liquids, 3rd edn. (McGraw-Hill, Inc, New York, 1987) C. Reimann, J. Friedrich, G. Müller, S. Wurzner, H.J. Möller, 22nd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference (WIP-Munich, Milan, 2007) C. Reimann, T. Jung, J. Friedrich, G. Müller, in Proceedings of the 33rd IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 2008. ISBN 978-1-4244-1641-7 F. Schmid, C.P. Khattack, J. Electrochem. Soc. 126, 935 (1979) F. Shimura, Semiconductor Silicon Crystal Technology (Academic Press, New York, 1989), p. 148 A.D. Smirnov, V.V. Kalaev, J. Cryst Growth 310, 2970 (2008) A.D. Smirnov, V.V. Kalaev, J. Cryst Growth 311, 829 (2009) Q. Sun, K.H. Yao, J. Lagowski, H.C. Gatos, J. Appl. Phys. 67, 4313 (1990) M. Watanabe, K.W. Yi, T. Hibiya, K. Kakimoto, Progr. Cryst Growth Charact Mater. 38, 215 (1999) A.G. Whittaker, Science 200, 763 (1978) K.W. Yi, K. Kakimoto, M. Eguchi, H. Noguchi, J. Cryst Growth 165, 358 (1996) 462 B. Gao and K. Kakimoto Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 16 Shuai Yuan and Deren Yang Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 464 Basic Properties of Nitrogen in Silicon ......................................................... 465 Existence ..................................................................................... 465 Detection and Measurements ................................................................ 466 Solubility ..................................................................................... 468 Diffusion ..................................................................................... 469 Nitrogen in Czochralski Silicon ................................................................. 470 Doping of N in CZ-Si Growth .............................................................. 470 N-O Complexes .............................................................................. 471 Inﬂuence on O-Related Defects ............................................................. 474 Effect of N Impurity on Mechanical Properties ............................................. 476 Nitrogen in Cast Multicrystalline Silicon ....................................................... 478 Soluble Nitrogen ............................................................................. 478 Silicon Nitride Precipitates .................................................................. 482 Inﬂuence on Wafering and the Mechanical Strength of Wafers ............................ 483 Inﬂuence on Electric Properties of Cell Performance ....................................... 485 Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon in Ambient Nitrogen ................................... 485 Gas Doping of N for Cast Mc-Si ............................................................ 485 Improvement in Mechanical Strength ....................................................... 487 Impact of N-O Complexes in Mc-Si Grown in Ambient N2 ............................... 488 Conclusion ....................................................................................... 490 Cross-References ................................................................................ 490 References ....................................................................................... 490 S. Yuan (*) State Key Laboratory of Silicon Materials and school of Materials Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, Zhejiang, Hangzhou, China e-mail: shuaiyuan@zju.edu.cn D. Yang State Key Laboratory of Silicon Materials and school of Materials Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China e-mail: mseyang@zju.edu.cn  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_22 463 Abstract This chapter starts with the basic features of nitrogen including the existence of N-related defects, detection and measurements of N content, the solubility, and diffusion of N impurities in silicon materials. From the perspective of photovoltaic application, the nitrogen doping method for Czochralski silicon is then introduced, and the results about the inﬂuence of nitrogen impurity on N-O complexes, O-related defects, and mechanical properties are presented. A second focus of this chapter is toward N-related defects in directionally solidiﬁed photovoltaic multicrystalline silicon (mc-Si) materials. The existence and distribution of N-related defects, the formation, and inﬂuence of silicon nitride precipitates in mc-Si are comprehensively described. Then the results about mc-Si growth in ambient nitrogen are presented as an application to further understand the properties of nitrogen in mc-Si. Keywords Czochralski silicon  Multicrystalline silicon  Nitrogen doping  Silicon nitride precipitates  Ambient nitrogen  Mechanical strength Introduction Crystalline silicon (c-Si) is the most important substrate material for solar cells, which occupies more than 90% of the market share in photovoltaic industry. Czochralski silicon (CZ-Si) and cast multicrystalline silicon (mc-Si) are the main types of c-Si materials. Nitrogen is one of the common light elemental impurities in silicon materials. Related research started decades ago. In the 1970s, nitrogen property in nitrogen-implanted silicon, Si3N4 ﬁlms on silicon substrate and even in ﬂoat-zone silicon was widely studied. And in the1980s, nitrogen was intentionally doped in CZ-Si wafers used for integrated circuit (IC) industry (Que et al. 1985; Yang et al. 1995). Due to the suppression of crystal-originated particles (COPs) (Yu et al. 2002), the enhancement on the nucleation of oxygen precipitates so as to improve the ability of internal gettering, and the increasement of mechanical strength, N-doped CZ-Si has been world widely applied (Yang et al. 2009; Yu et al. 2013). Moreover, N-doping in CZ-Si can also reduce high purity argon gas consuming expense, which helps to decrease the general cost of silicon crystal growth. However, for photovoltaic materials as substrates of bulk devices, the modiﬁ- cation by introducing oxygen precipitates is unwanted. Then the promising feature of nitrogen doping in CZ-Si crystal is to improve the material mechanical strength and to reduce the cost of protective gas by using cheaper nitrogen instead of high purity argon. So, intentional N-doping in CZ-Si becomes less attractive to photovoltaic manufactures. In the recent two decades, directionally solidiﬁed mc-Si has gradually become the leading photovoltaic substrate materials because of its low cost. Despite nitrogen was never intended to be doped into mc-Si, silicon nitride has been the optimal coating material to prevent the sticking between silicon ingots and quartz crucibles. The usage of silicon nitride coating made mc-Si growth in a N-rich environment so that the inﬂuence of N-related defects, especially Si3N4 precipitates, is very important to the crystal quality. 464 S. Yuan and D. Yang Meanwhile, there are a few researches considering the further control of N impurity in mc-Si by other means. This chapter ﬁrstly summarizes the basic properties of N-related impurity in general silicon materials. Then from the photovoltaic silicon perspective, we brieﬂy introduce the inﬂuence of N-doping on the relevant properties in Czochralski silicon. Later, the existence and transformation of N-related impurity and precipitates in mc-Si are described. And ﬁnally, the growth of photovoltaic mc-Si using cheaper ambient nitrogen is presented and discussed. Basic Properties of Nitrogen in Silicon Existence In crystalline silicon materials, soluble nitrogen atoms exist in the forms of mono- mer, dimer, or complex in Si lattice, and precipitates are formed when N concentra- tion exceeds the solubility. Various N-containing defects can be formed based on the reaction and combination of N atoms (interstitial and substitutional, Ni, and Ns), defective Si atoms (interstitials and vacancies, I and V), and other impurity atoms like oxygen. The structure of the conﬁgurations determines the formation energy, thermal stability, and particular local vibrational modes (LVMs) of the defects. The actual form of N-related defects in a certain sample is strongly inﬂuenced by thermal history. And LVMs of the defects result in well-deﬁned shifts in the vibrational frequencies, which help to identify the defects experimentally. The properties such as formation energy and LVMs of the N-containing conﬁgurations can be deter- mined using ﬁrst principle density functional theory; hence, the equilibrium stability can be predicted and the frequencies of the modes can be identiﬁed combined with infrared (and Raman) measurements (Jones et al. 1994b; Goss et al. 2003) (see the section Detection and Measurements). Table 1 gives the calculated formation energy per N atom of various combinations of Ni, Ns, I, and V, relative to the energy of the (Ni-Ni) deﬁned as zero. The data shows that all conﬁgurations have higher formation energy compared with (Ni-Ni), the only exception, 2(Ni-Ni), possesses a very small binding energy, so it should not be stable and signiﬁcant. Since (Ni-Ni) has a large binding energy of 4.30 eV (Sawada and Kawakami 2000), and isolated Ni has a high mobility (see the section Diffusion), therefore, di-interstitial pairs (Ni-Ni) should be the dominant equilibrium state of nitrogen atoms in silicon lattice under growth temperature (1400 C). The vibrational frequencies of many modes Table 1 Relative formation energies (eV) per N atom for various N conﬁgurations, zero is deﬁned by that of (Ni-Ni) (Goss et al. 2003) Structure 2(NiNi) (NiNi) (NsNs) (NiNs) (Ni)2I Ef/N atom 0.06 0.00 0.79 0.99 1.25 Structure (Ns-Ns)V Ni Ns (NsNs)V2 (NsV) Ef/N atom 1.71 1.83 1.99 2.54 3.71 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 465 have been investigated (Goss et al. 2003), among which, Table 2 shows the calcu- lated and observed frequencies of the vibration modes of (14Ni-14Ni) and 14Ns. These two modes are the only detectable modes at room temperature veriﬁed in experi- mental measurements (Goss et al. 2003). Moreover, the fraction of Ns in total N atoms is lower than 1%, which indicates that the ﬁnal state of N dimer at room temperature is (Ni-Ni) and the concentration of Ns in normal N-doped Si is usually lower than 1013 cm3. Therefore, the inﬂuence of ionized Ns donors on electrical properties can be ignored. Detection and Measurements To date, secondary ion mass spectroscopy (SIMS) and Fourier transformation infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) are the most widely used methods to determine the N concentration in crystalline silicon. SIMS is usually adopted for total N concen- tration, independent of its chemical states, the lower detection limit can be extended to 1  1013 cm3, but the measurement is relatively complicated and expensive when the N concentration is lower than 5  1014 cm3, mainly limited by the background N concentration (Hockett and Sams 2000). IR measurements via the presence of N-related vibration modes can differentiate the forms of N atoms in silicon, as these modes have different absorption frequencies. Figure 1 shows the example of a mid-infrared range FTIR spectrum at room temperature. The quanti- tative measurement of concentration can be obtained from the absorbance at certain peaks: C ¼ 1 d αA ¼ 1 d αln I0 I   , where C is the impurity concentration, d is the sample thickness, α is the absorption coefﬁcient, A is the absorbance at the peak, and I0 and I are the IR signal intensity of the peak and baseline, respectively. N dimers exhibit main IR vibration absorption peaks at 963 and 766 cm1, with the calibrated absorption coefﬁcients of 1.83  1017 (Itoh et al. 1985) and 4.45  1017 cm2 (Wagner et al. 1988), respectively. This method ensures a detection limit of 5  1014/d cm3 (100/d ppba, the unit of d is cm). As the main form of N in Si under room temperature is N dimer and N-O complex, in oxygen-free ﬂoat-zone silicon (FZ-Si), the total N concentration mea- sured by SIMS equals to the N concentration measured by FTIR (963 cm1), which Table 2 Calculated and observed frequencies (cm1) of IR active local modes of 14N in Si (Goss et al. 2003) (NiNi) Ns Calculated 967.8/772.9 637 Observed 962.1/765.6 653 466 S. Yuan and D. Yang proves that the main existing form of N in FZ-Si is N dimers. However, in CZ-Si and mc-Si, the N dimer concentration measured by FTIR is lower than the one measured by SIMS, due to the formation of N-O complexes and the decrease in N dimer concentration. As shown in Fig. 1, N-O complexes also exhibit a series of IR vibration absorption peaks (including 801, 996, and 1026 cm1) (Qi et al. 1991), without well-accepted absorption coefﬁcient. The isotopic effects on these LVMs show that these modes all shift with 15N (Jones et al. 1994a), showing N atoms to be involved in the complexes. Especially, the absorption intensity of 801 cm1 has a linear dependence on the product of [N][Oi], indicating that these bands arise from the N-O complexes. Therefore, FTIR at room temperature cannot be used to estimate the total N concentration in CZ-Si. While it is controversial to measure total N content in mc-Si because the interstitial oxygen concentration in mc-Si varies with growth details, so that a coarse measurement of total N content using N dimer IR absorption is somehow acceptable. Low-temperature Fourier transformation infrared spectroscopy (LT-FTIR) helps to extend the detection limit. On one hand, the 963 cm1 IR peak of N dimers shifts to 967 cm1 and becomes narrower when the sample is cooled down to 77 K, with a calibrated absorption coefﬁcient of 1.2  1017 cm2 (Zhang et al. 2013), lower than the one under room temperature, which extends the N dimer detection limit to 2  1014 cm3 at 77 K. On the other hand, the determination of N concentration in CZ-Si lower than 1014 cm3 can be performed using LT-FTIR in far-infrared range. The absorption peaks correspond to the ionization levels of the N-O complex Fig. 1 FTIR absorption peaks of N dimer (766, 963 cm1) and N-O (801, 996, and 1026 cm1) complex at room temperature 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 467 donors in silicon, in the spectral range of 190350 cm1. (see the section N-O Complex part) Before the measurement, long-time thermal annealing (mostly at 500650 C) is needed to assure saturated transformation from N dimers into N-O complexes. The detection limit of LT-FTIR method is affected by signal intensity of the spectrometer and sample thickness. Several detection limits have been reported in the range of 590  1012 cm3 (Nakatsu et al. 2004; Ono and Horikawa 2003; Porrini et al. 2003). Nevertheless, the calibration of IR absorption into absolute concentration is not enough by now. In addition, there are many other detection techniques for N-related contents in Si, including charged particle activation analysis (CPAA) (Nozaki et al. 1970), deep level transient spectroscopy (DLTS) (Tokumaru et al. 1982), Ruther- ford backscattering spectrometry (RBS), Auger electron spectroscopy (AES), electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR), luminescence and electrical resistivity (Bucksbaum and Bokor 1984; Hemment et al. 1985). Some of these methods were used to measure implanted substitutional N atoms in the early researches. How- ever, most of them could not reach the sensitivities required to measure a common concentration of N in photovoltaic CZ-Si and mc-Si as low as 1015 cm3. Solubility The nitrogen solubility in molten silicon was measured as 6  1018 cm3 by charged particle activation analysis (CPAA), using a sample at the end of fast cooled FZ-Si ingot (Yatsurugi et al. 1973). When N concentration in molten silicon exceeds the solubility, β-Si3N4 rods/particles will be segregated and ﬂoat above the molten silicon. This phenomenon can be commonly observed in the growth industrial directionally solidiﬁed mc-Si ingots because the soluble N is usually saturated in the molten silicon at the end of growth, however, ﬂoating Si3N4 in CZ growth may cause failure of dislocation-free growth. The solid solubility of N in Si was initially measured and reported as (4.5  1)  1015 cm3 (Yatsurugi et al. 1973), which was determined by the solubility in molten silicon and the small equilibrium segregation coefﬁcient of N in Si (k0 = 7.5  104 (Yatsurugi et al. 1973)). However, a larger solid N concentration at room temperature was measured as 1  1016 cm3 (FTIR, 963 cm1) in directionally solidiﬁed mc-Si, where the effective segregation coefﬁ- cient of N, keff, became larger than k0 due to the moderate convective transportation in casting method. According to Burton-Prim-Slichter theory, keff is deﬁned by the following formula: keff ¼ k0 k0 þ 1  k0 ð Þexp RδBPS=DL ð Þ , where R is the growth rate and δ the thickness of boundary layer which is determined by diffusivity (DL) of N and convection level. Obviously, compared to CZ growth, casting growth has much weaker convection level so that the boundary layer is 468 S. Yuan and D. Yang thicker and then the keff become larger. As the N concentration in solidiﬁed mc-Si is determined by both the N concentration in molten silicon and segregation effect, which are all strongly affected by convection level, N concentration in molten silicon is also inﬂuenced by crucible size and diffusion time, which may cause very complicated local distribution in the whole system. In the cases with weak convec- tion, the N concentration at ingot center is lower than that at the edge, but as the segregated N in the molten silicon increases fast, the N concentration in solid phase can keep increasing along ingot height due to segregation effect. Once the concen- tration (FTIR, 963 cm1) in solid phase exceeds 1016 cm3, Si3N4 precipitates will be rapidly generated, along with the decrease in N dimer IR absorption (Reimann et al. 2010) because the N dimers will further segregate on the precipitates. There- fore, the solid solubility of N in Si is usually noted as (410)  1015 cm3. Diffusion The diffusivity of N in silicon is controversial during the past decades because of the many forms of N-related defects. Researchers have reported theoretical and exper- imental results of various diffusion models. Theoretical investigation results indicate that the N monomer has a migration activation energy of 0.4 eV (Schultz and Nelson 2001; Nelson et al. 1998), which means they are highly mobile under high temper- ature. But the experimental measurements of the N monomer diffusivity in silicon are limited to its relatively low concentration and the detective techniques. Table 3 gives several experimental results, where the diffusion coefﬁcient is expressed by Arrhenius formula: D ¼ D0exp  EA kT   where D is the diffusion coefﬁcient (cm2/s), D0 is the pre-exponential factor (cm2/s), EA is the migration activation energy (eV), T is the absolute temperature (K), and k is the Boltzmann constant, 1.38064  1023 m2kg /s2K. The ﬁrst measurement of N diffusion coefﬁcient attempted by Clark et al. was based on Hall effect (Clark et al. 1968). After implanting 14N+ ions to form an n-type Table 3 The pre-exponential factor (D0) and migration activation energy (EA) of various models of N in silicon D0 (cm2/s) EA (eV) Model Clark et al. (1968), Pavlov et al. (1976) 0.87 3.29 Ion-implanted N Itoh and Abe (1988) 2.7  103 2.8 N dimer Voronkov and Falster (2004) 0.25 1.25 N monomer from the dissociation of N dimer Murphy et al. (2005) 6.3  102 1.38 Pinning of N monomer at dislocations 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 469 surface layer in the high resistive p-type silicon, the evolution of the p-n junction depth with the anneal temperature and time reﬂects the 14N+ diffusion behavior. Obviously, this experiment is not reliable for the major form of N dimers in N-doped CZ-Si and mc-Si. The most well-accepted diffusivity of N dimers was based on N dimer model. Theoretical results show that dominant N dimers have a large migration activation energy of 2.5 eV (Sawada et al. 2002; Fujita et al. 2005; Stoddard et al. 2005), which is assumed to be practically immobile at room temperature, indicating the diffusion of N dimers happens before a sample is cooled. Itoh et al. used SIMS (Itoh and Abe 1988) to measure out-diffused N on the proﬁles of silicon. It was found that the total amount of out-diffused N corresponds with the variation of N dimer IR absorption at the frequency of 963 cm1, conﬁrming that the N impurities in silicon diffuse as the form of dimers. The experimental value of activation energy was measured as 2.8 eV, which is close to the calculated values using ﬁrst principle method, so this model is supported by theoretical investigations. Moreover, further experiments suggest that the diffusivity of N in silicon is more complicated when the inﬂuence of other parameters such as oxygen impurities or dislocations is considered. Hockett (1989) suggested that N dimers may not be the only species responsible for transport, since a small fraction of N diffused rapidly while the majority (N dimers) remained immobile. Later, Mannino et al. found that N diffusion can be enhanced in oxygen-rich CZ-Si (Mannino et al. 2004). Voronkov and Falster proposed a dissociative model to explain the N diffusion in silicon (Voronkov and Falster 2004), where N transport proceeds via dissociation of the practically immobile dimers into mobile monomers by oxygen catalyzing. Mean- while, Murphy et al. pointed that the barrier of N monomer should be less than 1.5 eV through experiments on the pinning effect of N on dislocations (Alpass et al. 2009; Murphy et al. 2005). These models are not crucial for photovoltaic level CZ-Si and mc-Si materials. Nitrogen in Czochralski Silicon Doping of N in CZ-Si Growth N-doping in bulk Si is usually achieved by introducing N atoms into molten silicon during crystal growth. Solid and gas N source can be used for constructing N-rich growth environment. Silicon nitride (Si3N4) powders are the most widely used solid N-doping source. The major parameters of the powders are purity and size. The purity of powders should be better than 1 ppma. The powder size is associated with the dissolution rate. Incompletely dissolved powders will usually ﬂoat above the molten silicon and generate dislocations and even grain boundaries in a CZ-Si ingot (Yu et al. 2011). Si3N4 powders can be added to the crucible prior to any heating of polycrystalline silicon (poly-Si) material or during the melting of poly-Si. Another solution is to use 470 S. Yuan and D. Yang a crucible with Si3N4 coating on the inner walls. During the melting process, the Si3N4 coating keeps gradually dissolving into the molten silicon, and the N concen- tration in the molten silicon is determined by convective transport. This makes it difﬁcult to precisely control the doping amount when a N concentration lower than 1015 cm3 is needed. So, this technique is usually combined with empirical experience. In addition, boron nitride (BN) powders can also be used as N dopant for p-type Si crystal, where the doping amount of B should be well calculated for intended resistivity. BN is more refractory than Si3N4 at the melting point of Si so that the powder sizes should be further reduced to assure the complete dissolution of BN in the molten silicon, and meanwhile the melting time should be prolonged. Nitrogen gas was once considered unable to serve as the protective ambient for CZ-Si growth, because N2 reacts with polycrystalline silicon (poly-Si) nug- gets under high temperature with the regular partial pressure (Kaiser and Thurmond 1959), ﬁerce reaction between solid Si and N2 generates macroscopic Si3N4 particles on the surface of poly-Si and therefore inhibits the growth of defect-free single crystal. The gas doping of N in CZ-Si was ﬁrst introduced by Que et al. (1985, 1987, 1991, 2000), where N2 or N2/Ar mixture under reduced N2 partial pressure was used as the protective gas, and they successfully obtained N-doped Czochralski silicon (NCZ-Si) ingots. For the growth of NCZ-Si, the purity of protective N2 atmosphere should be ensured, and the total gas ﬂow rate should be controlled at a relatively high speed to efﬁciently eliminate SiO vapored above the molten silicon. The doping mechanism is to control the reaction velocity between N2 and solid poly-Si feedstock by tuning the partial pressure of N2. During the melting stage, N2 reacts with poly-Si, and thin Si3N4 ﬁlm (thickness less than 100 nm) is generated on the surface of poly- Si, and these N contents will completely dissolute in the molten silicon. There- fore, the doping amount can be controlled by manipulating the partial pressure and ﬂow rate of N2. during the melting stage, instead of during the growth stage. With the decrease of N2 partial pressure, the chemical reaction of N2 with poly- Si becomes weak, and therefore, the ﬁnal N concentration in silicon crystals is controllable. The N concentration in the tail of a CZ-Si is usually less than 5  1015 cm3, due to the liquid solubility and segregation coefﬁcient of N. When the N2 partial pressure is controlled well, the concentration of N in molten Si will not exceed its solubility, and no Si3N4 will ﬂoat on the liquid surface, so that the CZ growth will not be disturbed, and a high yield of dislocation-free single crystal can be obtained. Considering the low cost of N2 against Ar, and the beneﬁts of NCZ-Si, using N2 as the protective atmosphere under reduced pressure has been a cost-effective method for CZ-Si crystal growth. N-O Complexes N-O complexes introduce shallow thermal donors in CZ-Si. The ionization of these donors can be characterized by low-temperature FTIR. A typical LT-FTIR spectrum 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 471 of shallow thermal donors (STDs) is shown in Fig. 2 (Alt and Wagner 2010). Three series of bands of the 1 s ! 2p0, 1 s ! 2p, and 1 s ! 3p transitions were detected, and eight different species in each band were labeled as N-O-x (x = 1, 2, 3. . .) in Table 4. Several ionization energies of the STDs have been estimated, as shown in Table 5 (Alt and Wagner 2010). There are good agreements between the observed transition energies and the results of the effective mass approximation calculated for the STD states in silicon. The absorption coefﬁcients of the transitions (N-O-1, N-O-2, N-O-3, N-O-5) increase with the N content in square root dependence (Ewels et al. 1996; Alt Fig. 2 LT-FTIR (10 K) transmittance spectrum of N-O shallow donors (Alt and Wagner 2010), the absorption peaks correspond to 1 s ! 2p0, 1 s ! 2p, and 1 s ! 3p, noted by Suezawa et al. (1986) and Wagner et al. (2007) Table 4 STD absorption peak positions measured at 8 K (Suezawa et al. 1988; Wagner et al. 2007) Species 1 s ! 2p0 (cm1) 1 s ! 2p (cm1) 1 s ! 3p (cm1) N-O-1 190.8 233.8 260.1 N-O-2 194.9 237.8 264.2 N-O-3 197.7 240.4 266.8 N-O-4 200.2 242.5 269.0 N-O-5 207.4 249.8 276.4 N-O-6 204.4 247.0 274.2 N-O-60 187.9 230.6 256.9 N-O-8 199.1 241.5 268.2 472 S. Yuan and D. Yang et al. 2006). According to the mass action law for the reaction nN + mO = NnOm, it leads to the integrated absorption values equal to [N]n[Oi]m. The N predominantly exists in the dimer form, so the concentrations of interstitial N atoms [Ni] can be expressed as Ni ½   ρN=2 ð Þ1=2exp E=2kT ð Þ, where ρ is the lattice site density. Note that the square root dependence is obtained in the expression. This coincidence shows that the STDs should involve only one N atom. The oxygen concentration dependence of the STDs had been investigated by Wagner et al. (2007; Hara et al. 1989). The chemical compositions of the electrically active N-O complexes in silicon were determined in a specially doped ingot with variable oxygen concentrations and a ﬁxed N concentration by FTIR technique. The result shows that the N-O-5, with its absorption at 249.8 cm1 in 1 s ! 2p transition, has a linear dependency, proving N-O-5 to be NO (m = 1). The other two species of N-O-4 (242.5 cm1) and N-O-6 (256.9 cm1) also show the linearity between [NOm] and [Oi]; therefore they have the same NO stoichiometry. N-O-3 with its transitions 1 s ! 2p at 240.4 cm1 has a square dependence on [Oi], indicating that it has a NO2 composition. The power dependency m = 3 of the complexes N-O-1 (233.8 cm1), N-O-2 (237.8 cm1), and N-O-8 (241.5 cm1) identiﬁes these STDs as NO3 defects. The composition of N-O-6 remains unknown. As N-O complexes are shallow donors in silicon materials, they can inﬂuence the resistivity of both p-type and n-type wafers. Therefore, the thermal history of the wafers should be noted during the fabrication of solar cells or electronic devices. N-O complexes in CZ-Si gradually degenerate when the sample is annealed with the temperature higher than 750 C. The degeneration velocity increases with annealing temperatures, while the formation of N-O complexes happens in the annealing temperature window of 450750 C, when N dimers react with interstitial oxygen and generate N-O complexes. Figure 3 shows the degeneration and regeneration process of N-O complexes in a N-doped CZ-Si sample. The left image shows that the annealing at 850 C for 2 h can completely remove the N-O complex-related peaks at 801, 996, and 1026 cm1, and the right image shows that the N dimer peaks at 766 and 963 cm1 decrease the fastest when annealed at 550 C, and the multiple new peaks are formed during the low-temperature annealing, indicating that the thermal stability of various complexes is different, which means that the degenera- tion and regeneration of N-O complexes are not absolutely reversible. Table 5 Ionization energies of the shallow donors (Wagner et al. 2007) Donor Groups Ionization energy (meV) 1 35.38 2 35.90 3 36.21 4 36.45 5 37.38 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 473 Influence on O-Related Defects Thermal Donors Thermal donors (TDs) are usually accumulated from enriched oxygen impurities during the cooling stage of CZ-Si ingots or in the long-time annealing in the temperature of 350500 C. TDs are doubly ionized at room temperature and cause downward shift of resistivity in n-type phosphorus (P)-doped silicon, which usually introduces two donor levels of Ec-0.05 eV and Ec-0.15 eV. TDs can be eliminated in the high-temperature courses of normal solar cell processes, i.e., phosphorus diffusion process, so their inﬂuence on the performance of wafers and solar cells does not get enough attention. With the developments of high efﬁciency and low-temperature SHJ solar cell process, this issue starts to become more and more important. Since the maximum temperature of SHJ processes remains below 300 C, as mentioned above, the as-grown TDs are still retained in the bulk of silicon wafers. TDs have negative inﬂuences on the performance of SHJ solar cells. The decrease of minority carrier lifetime is the uppermost factor responsible for the deterioration of efﬁciency (Li et al. 2018). The results indicate that the solar cell manufacturers should choose the wafer with the concentrations of TDs as low as possible to limit their detrimental effect on the cell efﬁciency. Furthermore, it is of great importance for silicon crystal growers to manage to reduce the contamination of oxygen during the crystal growth and make the ingot cooling time as short as possible or develop appropriate methods to decrease oxygen concentration and suppress the formation of thermal donors. Nitrogen has twofold effects on the generation of donors (TDs and STDs) in silicon. As mentioned above, a family of N-O complexes related to both N and O Fig. 3 The FTIR spectra of N-doped CZ-Si (left) before and after annealing at 850 C for 2 h, (right) annealed at 450, 550, and 650 C for 24 h after complete N-O complex degeneration 474 S. Yuan and D. Yang impurities forms at temperatures around 650 C, and as a result, the formation of TDs associated only with oxygen impurity is suppressed. Early research identiﬁed new STDs (not as N-O complexes) in NCZ-Si using photothermal ionization spectroscopy (PLIS), along with the suppression of the formation of TDs (Grifﬁn et al. 1989). Then using low-temperature far-infrared spectroscopy (LT-FTIR), as shown in Fig. 4, it was found that N suppresses the formation of TDs in CZ-Si annealed at 450 C, while N interacts with oxygen atoms to form N-O complexes (Yang et al. 1995). The interaction of N and oxygen atoms is supposed to reduce the TDs. Oxygen Precipitates Supersaturated interstitial oxygen atoms in CZ-Si can aggregate into oxygen pre- cipitates (OPs) and further induce secondary lattice defects during thermal pro- cessing. These defects can getter harmful metal contaminants but induce punch- out dislocations causing the decrease of mechanical strength. The controlling of OPs in CZ-Si is very important for improving performance and yield of ICs. The formation of OPs consists of two stages, i.e., nucleation and growing up. It has been reported that N atoms in CZ-Si can introduce heterogeneous nuclei enhancing the generation of OPs (Karoui and Rozgonyi 2004); therefore, NCZ-Si has been well developed and applied in the IC industry since stronger internal getting is demanded when processing temperatures keeps decreasing (Yang and Yu 2004; Yu et al. 2013). For solar cells as bulk devices, internal getting on the base of OPs and induced extended defects is not suitable. Moreover, OPs within CZ-Si wafers will introduce deep energy levels in band gap and become the recombination centers for minority carriers, so that the lifetime of wafers decreases. The degree of lifetime degradation was more pronounced in p-type silicon than in n-type silicon because the recombi- nation of OPs takes place through their interface states, where the existence of positive ﬁxed charges around OPs will boost the lifetime degradation in p-type silicon. The performance on p-type (Ga-doped) CZ-Si Al-BSF solar cells with intentionally formed OPs shows that the degradation increases sharply with the 0.1800 0.0200 500 470 440 WAVENUMBERS (cm1) ABSORBANCE 410 380 (a) (b) (c) 350 Fig. 4 LT-FTIR spectra related to thermal donors in CZ-Si. (a) High [N], (b) low [N], (c) N-undoped (Yang et al. 1995) 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 475 concentration of OPs, mainly contributed by the long-wave loss related to bulk recombination (Chen et al. 2011). In fact, the inﬂuence of N-related impurities on OPs should be noticed in the cases which the CZ-Si wafers containing high oxygen contents go through long-term annealing. However, currently the fabrication tem- perature of Al-BSF solar cells is lower than 900 C, and the annealing time is shorter. Thus, the process does not introduce OPs in solar cells if as-grown oxygen contents are not high enough. Moreover, the N concentration in CZ-Si materials used for photovoltaic industry is very low. Therefore, N-doped CZ-Si could be used for the fabrication of solar cells due to the advantages of low-cost protective gas and higher mechanical strength. Effect of N Impurity on Mechanical Properties The mechanical properties of CZ-Si wafers for solar cells are crucial for ensuring manufacturing yield of wafers and cells, especially when the wafer thickness keeps decreasing in recent years. Silicon, as a brittle material at room temperature, is susceptible to breakage or fracture during cell manufacturing due to any localized stress. Generally, the mechanical properties of silicon are dictated by the generation and extension of microcracks, which is related to the generation and motion of dislocations. For CZ-Si, N as co-dopant also affects the mechanical properties of CZ-Si (Lu et al. 1998; Wang et al. 2001; Yu et al. 2013). The effect of N-doping on Youngs modulus and hardness of silicon has been studied by nano-indentation. N-doping with a concentration of 2  1015 cm3 can signiﬁcantly increase the Youngs modulus (from 104 to 182 GPa) and hardness (from 6.49 to 8.11 GPa) of ﬂoat-zone (FZ) silicon (Anderson 2004). The room temperature fracture strength of N-doped wafers was investigated with a double ring bending setup, where FZ silicon wafers with the low N and O concentration (2  1014 and 34  1015 cm3, respectively) exhibited a signiﬁcantly higher fracture strength than conventional CZ ([Oi]: 7.28.6  1017 cm3) or FZ ([Oi]: 415  1015 cm3) wafers, whereas FZ-Si wafers with the high N concentration (1.73.6  1015 cm3) but without O did not possess the improved fracture strength (Vedde and Gravesen 1996). Besides, for CZ-Si, N-doping can always improve fracture strength. This implies that the improvement in the fracture strength of silicon by N-doping relies on the presence of oxygen. Oxygen precipitates and N-O complexes are suggested to be responsible for the increase in fracture strength for NCZ-Si (Wang et al. 2001; Chen et al. 2008). Interstitial oxygen can suppress slip and warpage of CZ-Si wafers (Hu and Patrick 1975; Yonenaga et al. 1984). Likewise, interstitial N dimers and N-O complexes have the similar effects. Interestingly, a minor concentration of N (3  1015 cm3) is found to be very effective in reducing slips in low-oxygen content silicon wafers (Wagner et al. 1988). N-doping with a concentration of 3.6  1015 cm3 can reduce wafer warpage of CZ-Si wafers during annealing 476 S. Yuan and D. Yang (Lu et al. 1998). Moreover, the dislocation glide around an indentation on CZ-Si at high temperatures is found to be signiﬁcantly suppressed by N-doping (Hu and Patrick 1975; Yonenaga et al. 1984). In CZ-Si with different N concentrations, an increase in the N concentration leads to enhanced upper and lower yield points, as shown in Fig. 5 (Orlov et al. 2002). This implies that N-doping can increase the tolerable processing temperatures at which the plastic deformation of silicon wafers under load can be avoided. The locking of dislocations by N can be directly evidenced by the increased unlocking stress, which refers to the critical stress for dislocation movement. It is proved that the FZ silicon with higher N concentrations has larger unlocking stresses, implying the increase in N concen- tration results in a stronger locking effect (Murphy et al. 2006). The interaction energy between N and dislocations has also been studied by measuring the unlocking stress as a function of temperatures (Yonenaga 2005). The experimen- tally estimated energy for dislocation escaping from the locking of N atom is 4.1 eV, slightly higher than that of 3.6 eV between dislocations and oxygen (Yonenaga et al. 2005). This interaction energy cannot be understood in terms of the model in which the dislocations interact with individual impurity atoms. Consequently, it is proposed that impurity atoms segregate at dislocations and pipe diffuse along the dislocation line, forming complexes or clusters which immobilize dislocations strongly (Yonenaga 2005). Molecular dynamics (MD) modeling suggests that the binding energy of N with edge dislocation (1.66 eV/A) is slightly lower than that of oxygen (1.8 eV/A) (Sumino et al. 1983). In brief, both the experimental and theoretical results agree that N has a strong dislocation locking ability which is comparable with that of oxygen. 20 15 10 N-undoped Low N-doped High N-doped 5 0 0 1 2 Shear strain, e (%) Resolved shear stress, t (MPa) 3 4 Fig. 5 Stress-strain curves of dislocation-free Czochralski silicon crystals deformed in the 110 direction at 850 C for different N concentrations. The concentrations of N in the samples are 3  10133  1014 cm3 for low N-doped samples, 3  10143  1015 cm3 for high N-doped samples, and  3  1013 cm3 for the N-undoped samples (Orlov et al. 2002) 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 477 Nitrogen in Cast Multicrystalline Silicon Soluble Nitrogen Cast multicrystalline (mc-Si) materials used in photovoltaic industry, including quasi-single crystal silicon (QSC-Si) which is also called as mono-like silicon (ML-Si), are fabricated using directional solidiﬁcation method. In this technology, the size of the crucibles is much larger than that of CZ-Si, and the ingots are directly in contact with the crucible wall. However, the contact of molten silicon and quartz crucibles under high temperatures can cause sticking between them, which generates the crack of ingots during cooling because silicon and quartz have different thermal conductivities. Therefore, Si3N4 coating layer (usually a mixture of α-Si3N4 and β-Si3N4) on the inner surface of quartz crucibles is usually used to prevent the reaction between molten silicon and crucibles. However, N atoms are induced into mc-Si ingots by the Si3N4 coating (Ghosh et al. 1997). And, the convection of molten silicon in large-scale crucibles during the growth of mc-Si is much weaker compared to the growth of CZ-Si, which weakens the segregation of N during solidiﬁcation. Consequently, the distribution of N-related impurities in cast mc-Si ingots is more complicated than that in N-doped CZ-Si ingots. N Dimers The distribution of N concentration in a mc-Si ingot is controlled by both the entrance and segregation of N atoms during the whole growth. For normal cast silicon materials, the only but excessive N source is Si3N4 coatings on the inner wall of crucibles. As the diffusivity and temperature is similar, the distribution of N concentration in molten silicon is strongly inﬂuenced by the size of crucible, melting time, and convection. Convection is also the main factor controlling the effective segregation. During melting and solidiﬁcation, Si3N4 coating, as the only N dopant, keeps dissolving into the molten silicon; the doping rate is positively correlated with the contacting area between molten silicon and Si3N4 coating. Since the temperature and time duration respectively are high and long enough, the N concentration in molten silicon should be at high-level, especially almost saturated for the cases using small crucible, which is close to 6  1018 cm3 as mentioned above. Small crystals are better for investigating the inﬂuence of convection on segregation, where ﬁnal N concentration in solid phase is usually only controlled by the segregation effect because N is usually well diffused in the molten silicon. Trempa et al. investigated the N distribution in a small ingot with width of 6 cm. Figure 6a shows the axial nitrogen distribution (measured by FTIR) of the central region of ingots. Two ingots (A1 and B1) were grown with enhanced convection using standard Si3N4 coating, and in one case (B1) additional Si3N4 powders were added to the feedstock and the homogenization time was extended to 10 h. Another two ingots (C1 and D1) used the crucibles with (D1) or without (C1) Si3N4 coating. For the process with strong convection (Ingot A1 and B1), nitrogen is axially homogeneously distributed in the range of (24)  1015 cm3 regardless of the adding of Si3N4 powders. For moderate convection with Si3N4 478 S. Yuan and D. Yang coating, Ingot D1, the axial nitrogen concentration keeps increasing at the begin- ning and reaches to the limit of 1  1016 cm3 at 30% solidiﬁed fraction and then decreases to below 2  1015 cm3 at 75% solidiﬁed fraction when Si3N4 and SiC 16 a b 12 N concentration (1015 cm3) N concentration (1015 cm3) 8 4 0 12 9 6 3 0 30 20 10 0 Radial position (mm) 10 20 30 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 Fraction of ingot height A1: Strong Conv. with Si3N4 coating B1: Strong Conv. +Extra Si3N4 powder C1: Moderate Conv. without Si3N4 coating D1: Moderate Conv. with Si3N4 coating A2: Strong conv. h=5 mm B2: Moderate conv. h=5 mm C2: Moderate conv. h=30 mm 0.8 1.0 Fig. 6 (a) The axial N concentration in the center of a mc-Si ingot grown in moderate and increased convection with various N sources, (b) the radial N concentration at the height of 5 mm and 30 mm from the bottom of the ingots grown with moderate and increased convection in Si3N4-coated crucible. (The data are extracted from Reimann et al. 2010) 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 479 precipitates were generated so that the soluble N concentration is reduced. As comparison, the sample grown under moderate convection without a Si3N4 cru- cible coating (ingot C1) has an extremely low nitrogen content below the detec- tion limit of the FTIR measurement of 5  1014 cm3. The radial distribution of N concentration is also strongly dependent on the convection. Figure 6b illustrates the measured radial N distributions at the height of 5 mm (A2, B2) and 30 mm (C2) from the bottom of the ingot. Here two ingots were grown from a pure feedstock in a Si3N4-coated crucible with strong (A2) and moderate (B2, C2) convection. With strong convection (A2), N concentration is homogeneously distributed in the range (24)  1015 cm3, and it holds also at a height of 30 mm for this sample (not shown in Fig. 6). As comparison, in the sample grown under moderate convection (B2), the radial N concentration increases slightly toward the center (8.5  1015 cm3) from the edge (6  1015 cm3). At the height of 30 mm, the nitrogen concentration increases from 6  1015 cm3 at the edge to the highest values of (911)  1015 cm3 at about 1/4 and 3/4 positions (C2), and it then rapidly decreased to 3  1015 cm3 at the center because the soluble N impurities have been segregated and become precipitates. Figure 7 shows the IR-transmission images of vertical cross sections of ingots grown with various growth rates, where the high growth rate corresponds to a thick boundary layer width and weak segregation effect. Si3N4 precipitates will gener- ate when the soluble N concentration is over the solubility of N. Once the segregation effect with saturated N in molten silicon is clear, the general situation in larger crystal is easy to discuss. Generally, as the dopant is located at the crucible wall, the distribution of N concentration in molten silicon can be estimated combining diffusion and convection, which means N concentration in the molten silicon usually decreases from the edge toward ingot center, but strong convection and long melting time will reduce the horizontal concentration gradient. During solidiﬁcation, the distribution of N in solid phase is determined by both the concen- tration in the molten silicon around the solid-liquid interface and the convection level, of which the latter affects both the effective segregation coefﬁcient and the local enrichment above the growth interface. For the cases with poor convection, the concentration in both solid and local liquid phase might be increased at the same 2.2 cm/h 1 cm 1 cm 1 cm 1.0 cm/h 0.2 cm/h Fig. 7 IR-transmission images of vertical cuts through the ingot center for ingot grown with the growth rate of 2.2, 1.0, and 0.2 cm/h (Trempa et al. 2010) 480 S. Yuan and D. Yang time. Si3N4 precipitates will generate in various forms when the concentration exceeds solubility (see the section Silicon Nitride Precipitates). If the convection is strong enough, the N concentration of most parts of the ingot will be stable. N-O Complex The formation of N-O complexes requires adequate N and O concentrations. Cur- rently, the N and Oi concentrations in industrial mc-Si ingot are in the range of 46  1015 cm3 and 0.55  1017 cm3, respectively, enough for the formation of N-O complexes. The LT-FTIR absorption peaks of N-O complexes can be easily observed in n-type mc-Si (Ghosh et al. 1997). As the N concentration is relatively stable among the whole mc-Si ingot, the formation of N-O complexes is mainly determined by the concentration of interstitial Oi, which depends on the coating selection and decreases along the ingot height. Therefore, the generation of N-O complexes in mc-Si changes with the Oi concentration. It was reported that in n-type mc-Si, the fraction of N-O complexes in total soluble N-related impurities can be up to 44% when [Oi] = 3.2  1017 cm3, but smaller than 10% when [Oi]  1.0  1017 cm3 (Zhang et al. 2013). As a result, the distribution of N dimers and N-O complexes in mc-Si is complementary, determined by the distribution of interstitial oxygen Oi, that is, the fraction of dimers is higher at ingot top, while the complexes higher at bottom, as shown in Fig. 8 (Kusunoki et al. 2011). The common shallow thermal donor (STD) concentration in n-type mc-Si was measured as 1  1014 cm3 (Zhang et al. 2013), which is believed to be caused by N-O complexes. To date, the majority of industrial mc-Si ingots are B-doped p-type Si, where the B concentration is about 1016 cm3, so N-O complex STDs with a concentration of 1014 cm3 should not obviously affect the resistivity of p-type wafers. Moreover, the majority of N-O complexes can be eliminated during the P diffusion process (under 800900 C), so that the inﬂuence of N-O complexes on the performance of p-type mc-Si solar cell is usually ignored. Fig. 8 Complementary distributions of the absorption peak intensities of (a) NN (963 cm1) and (b) NNO (996 cm1) over a vertical cross section of mc-Si brick (Kusunoki et al. 2011) 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 481 Silicon Nitride Precipitates Formation The formation of nitrogen-related precipitates strongly depends on the local ther- modynamic conditions and impurity transportation during crystallization. As men- tioned, the solubility of N in mc-Si is 1016 cm3, and Si3N4 precipitates are segregated when the local concentration exceeds the solubility. The N concentration in mc-Si at the solid-liquid interface is determined by the effective segregation of N, which is dependent on equilibrium segregation coefﬁcient and convection specifying how heat and mass transfer can take place between liquid and solid interface of silicon. If local N concentration exceeds the liquid solubility, Si3N4 precipitates will generate at the liquid part of the interface and sink into the solid phase. Then it has a probability to serve as a seed for further growth of Si3N4 crystal; thus, the convection has an important inﬂuence to determine how much N content can be transported nearby, which determines the ﬁnal size of the precipitates. As a result, the common forms of Si3N4 precipitates in mc-Si include rods, ﬁbers, and nets, the parameters of which are listed in Table 6 (Richter et al. 2017). Si3N4 rods have relatively large diameter and small length and are perfectly grown as hexagonal, showing no position preference within the grain structure. It indicates that they are grown in liquid Si where the surrounding inﬂuence is much lower than that in solid phase. Poor convection could be the main reason for the Table 6 Classiﬁcation of Si3N4 precipitates in cast mc-Si crystals (Richter et al. 2017) Si3N4 rod Si3N4 ﬁber Si3N4 net Morphology and phase Monocrystalline β-Si3N4 Monocrystalline α-Si3N4 Multicrystalline α-Si3N4 Size (d: diameter, l: length) d: 30 μm l:  2 mm d: 500 nm l:  8 mm d: 500 nm l:  3 mm Growth preference In grain, random In grain, growth direction At GB, growth direction Structure space group lattice constant (nm) Hexagonal P63 (173) a = 0.760 c = 0.291 Trigonal P31c (159) a = 0.775 c = 0.562 Trigonal P31c (159) a = 0.775 c = 0.562 Impurities, resistance (Ω cm) Li, C, O, Mg, Ca 4.7  107 C, O, Ca (5  4)  108 C, O, Al, Ca (1.44  0.26)  1010 482 S. Yuan and D. Yang formation of Si3N4 rods, when the N concentration in molten silicon is relatively high and the convection is relatively poor; most of the segregated N into the molten silicon cannot be transported away, once the concentration exceeds the solubility, and precipitates will be generated in the liquid phase. Because poor convection usually corresponds to fast growth and Si3N4 has a higher density (3.44 g/cm3) than liquid Si (2.55 g/cm3), Si3N4 rods can sink to the solid-liquid interface and get embedded in the solid phase. Si3N4 ﬁbers grow in vertical growth direction within grain. Compared to Si3N4 rods, they have obviously longer length and shorter diameter, which indicates that the ﬁbers grow along with the silicon crystal so that the diameter of the ﬁbers is limited and the length prolonged. Therefore, it can be assumed that Si3N4 ﬁbers need seeds to start the growth. The equilibrium state of Si3N4 inclusion is β phase, while Si3N4 ﬁbers show trigonal α-Si3N4 crystallographic structure, and they grow in preferred orientation. So far, there is no clear evidence that Si3N4 ﬁbers start from Si lattice; some results show that the ﬁbers start from a Si3N4 rod inclusion (Li et al. 2013). Consider that the lattice constant of trigonal α-Si3N4 (a = 0.775 nm and c = 0.562 nm), close to the hexagonal β-Si3N4 (a = 0.760 nm), and Si lattice constant (a = 0.543 nm), the lattice mismatch between the ﬁber seed and β-Si3N4 or Si, are both relatively low; therefore, it can be inferred that the seed of Si3N4 ﬁbers should be generated at some tensile zone or precipitates enlarging the lattice constant. Si3N4 nets are likewise α phase precipitates but multicrystal found at grain boundaries (GBs). GBs can offer more nucleation sites for the segregation of α-Si3N4, and then a series of ﬁbers can grow within the preferential angle. Si3N4 ﬁbers and nets are usually found parallel in one ingot, indicating they are same kind of inclusions with different nucleation sites. The extension of Si3N4 ﬁbers/nets is strongly related to the transportation of N content, which is mainly determined by the convection details, and the butterﬂy shaped nets shown in Fig. 9 are an example to show the complexity of defect extension. Influence on Wafering and the Mechanical Strength of Wafers The wafering of mc-Si bricks mainly uses SiC slurry wire sawing in the past several decades, and now the wafering technique has been mostly changed to diamond wire sawing (DWS). As SiC particles are usually generated along with Si3N4 precipitates, the inﬂuence of SiC and Si3N4 precipitates on the mechanical properties should be considered together. The embedded inclusions such as Si3N4 precipitates are harder than silicon bulk. Thus, for wire saw wafering process, the un-uniformed hardness of the Si material introduces local tensile stress on the wire and may cause wire rupture during cutting. Table 7 gives the hardness values of Si, SiC, α-Si3N4, β-Si3N4, and Fe-decorated β-Si3N4 (Richter et al. 2017). It is clear that the SiC and Si3N4 precipitates are harder than Si, which means they introduce extra local tensile stress on the wire. Despite β-Si3N4 is harder than SiC, it should be mentioned that the main form of Si3N4 in mc-Si is Fe-decorated β-Si3N4 rods (Buonassisi et al. 2006) and the hardness of 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 483 β-Si3N4 can be reduced by Fe decoration, lower than the value of SiC but still higher than Si (Chakraborty and Mukerji 1980). Therefore, it is believed that SiC particles and ﬁlaments are the major hard inclusions in mc-Si. This supports the fact that the β-Si3N4 rods and very thin α-Si3N4 are usually easily cut during wafering. However, hard SiC particles are usually highly localized around β-Si3N4 rods. Therefore, the existence of SiC and Si3N4 precipitates is the main factor of wire rupture (Du et al. 2007, 2008). Furthermore, embedded SiC and Si3N4 precipitates in mc-Si wafers also decrease the mechanical strength and increase fracture rate of wafers and devices. The adjacent phases have different thermal expansion coefﬁcients (TEC) (Schoenfelder et al. 2009), and the mismatch of the TECs at the interface of precipitates introduces shear stress. The average tensile shear stresses at β-SiC/Si and β-Si3N4/Si interfaces were reported as 24 and 12 MPa, respectively, measured by infrared birefringence imaging (IBI) (Ganapati et al. 2010). Therefore, when the amount of SiC/Si3N4 precipitates increases, the heterogeneous degree of local tensile stresses will be increased with enlarged net local shear stress, and the probability of stress concen- tration is increased, which ﬁnally leads to the reduction of wafer fracture strength as the critical stress is more easily reached under same load. Fig. 9 IR-transmission image of vertical cross section of the ingot with butterﬂy-shaped Si3N4 precipitates and schematic diagram of the convection ﬂuctuation model during the formation (Li et al. 2013) Table 7 Vickers hardness of Si, SiC, α-Si3N4, β-Si3N4, and Fe-decorated β-Si3N4 Vickers hardness (GPa) Si 13  1 (20 mN load) Vandeperre et al. (2007) SiC 23  2 Snead et al. (2007) α-Si3N4 38 (200 g load) Chakraborty and Mukerji (1980) β-Si3N4 30 (200 g load) Chakraborty and Mukerji (1980) β-Si3N4 with 0.1 wt% Fe 19 (200 g load) Chakraborty and Mukerji (1980) 484 S. Yuan and D. Yang Influence on Electric Properties of Cell Performance The length of Si3N4 inclusions in mc-Si ingots is usually several millimeters, so they commonly penetrate the wafers (width from 160 to 180 μm). Despite the resistivity of penetrating Si3N4 is relatively high (Bauer et al. 2007), these inclusions can still serve as shunts in solar cells under forward bias (Breitenstein et al. 2004), as shown in Fig. 10. Generally, it is considered as shunts that cause degradation in ﬁll factor (FF) and open-circuit voltage (Voc), However, for the industrial-level mc-Si cells, the series resistance of the devices cannot be ignored, and then the increase in shunts can also reduce the short-circuit current (Jsc) at the same time. Meanwhile, Si3N4 inclusions are the nucleation sites for SiC particles. Penetrating SiC ﬁlaments at grain boundaries are conﬁrmed low-resistivity shunts, but the size of SiC particles is usually smaller compared to wafer thickness, and 80%wt of the inclusions have a diameter between 75 and 385 μm (Søiland et al. 2004). Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon in Ambient Nitrogen Gas Doping of N for Cast Mc-Si N-doping through utilizing ambient nitrogen (Yang et al. 2009) has been well applied in CZ-Si growth. NCZ-Si wafers have multiple beneﬁts and features for IC industry, i.e., it provides the ﬂexibility in controlling oxygen precipitates, Fig. 10 Lock-in thermogram of a cell containing a Si3N4 inclusion (arrow) (Breitenstein et al. 2004) 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 485 suppressing void defects related to vacancies, and improving mechanical strength of wafers. However, for cast mc-Si (including QSC-Si), these features are not as important as for CZ-Si, and certain amounts of N content are incorporated into the crystal due to the reaction of the coated Si3N4 on the inner walls of crucible with molten silicon (Ghosh et al. 1997), so there are few interests on gas doping of N for mc-Si. To date, mc-Si ingots are mostly grown in ambient argon. As discussed above, the N concentration in the molten silicon is relatively high, the ideal segregation coefﬁcient of N in silicon is as small as 7.5  104, and the most important, the manufacturers usually do not intentionally change the convec- tion level. Thus, the common range of N concentration in a regular mc-Si ingot is 46  1015 cm3. And the soluble N concentration in the mc-Si crystal must be controlled lower than 1016 cm3 in solid phase, or else Si3N4 precipitates must be generated and then cause dense defects in silicon crystal. When casting mc-Si ingots in ambient nitrogen, additional N sources are intro- duced in the system as Si3N4 ﬁlm or particles, and they are generated at the solid Si surface by the reaction between polycrystalline Si and N2 during the melting stage. Because the convection in casting method is much lower compared with CZ growth, the additional Si3N4 generated on poly-Si nuggets increases the contact area between Si3N4 and molten silicon, which increases the localized N concentration in both liquid and solidiﬁed silicon. Once the N concentration is oversaturated, Si3N4 precipitation should be generated in the crystal. Figure 11 shows the minority lifetime mapping images of mc-Si ingots grown in Ar (MC), N2 with (NMC1) reduced and (NMC0) regular pressure. The inset of Fig. 11 shows the Si3N4 pre- cipitates and related cracks in the ingot MNC0 grown in ambient N2 with regular pressure of 600 mbar. The mapping of brick shows that the relatively high N2 partial pressure can cause many cracks in the crystal. These cracks are ﬁlled with Si3N4 precipitates, and dense dislocations/grain boundaries are generated nearby. SEM photo shows that the precipitates are mostly needle-like, suggesting that they are β-Si3N4, which means they are not unmelted coating because the coating is usually Fig. 11 The minority carrier lifetime mapping of mc-Si grown in Ar (MC), N2 with reduced pressure (NMC1) and normal pressure (NMC0). Inset shows the defect distribution near a crack shown by Secco etching and SEM photo of Si3N4 precipitates located in the cracks 486 S. Yuan and D. Yang composed by α-Si3N4. Meanwhile, Si3N4 particles formed before solidiﬁcation will ﬂoat upward the surface of the molten silicon and cannot exist in the bulk. The generation of cracks should be related to the high thermal stress after solidiﬁcation during the hot temperature phase of crystal growth, the fast diffuser N-N pairs could diffuse to the crack surfaces and then form silicon nitride particles. However, the detailed mechanism for the formation of the cracks with silicon nitride aggregation still needs more experiments to reveal. The N concentration can be controlled through manipulating N2 partial pressure. Fine mc-Si ingots can be obtained under ambient nitrogen with reduced pressure. The total N concentration in the top samples was measured to be 9.4  1015 cm3 by SIMS, which is much higher than the regular range of 46  1015 cm3. This indicates that the N concentrations can be effectively improved by the utilization of ambient nitrogen with a reduced pressure. Figure 11 also shows that the minority carrier lifetime of NMC0 is lower than that of NMC1 due to the generation of massive cracks, and the carrier lifetime of NMC1 is even better than MC. This suggests that the increase in N concentrations up to 9.4  1015 cm3 has no inﬂuence on the carrier recombination properties of cast mc-Si materials and, therefore, should do no harm on the performance of solar cells. Improvement in Mechanical Strength It is well known that the introduction of N can enhance the mechanical strength of CZ-Si (Wang et al. 2001); therefore, the extra N-doping in mc-Si can likewise further enhance the fracture strength of wafers. The inﬂuence of extra N-doping on fracture strength is investigated using twist breakage test combined with Weibull analysis. Twist test is the most widely used tool to characterize the fracture strength, consid- ering the nonuniform grain structure of mc-Si wafers. Figure 12 shows the scheme of twist test for 156  156 mm2 wafers, where wafers were placed on ﬁxed lower dowel Fig. 12 Schematic setup of the twist-test conﬁguration and the Weibull plots of the variation of fracture strength with the applied stress for the wafers from the ingots grown in N2 and Ar (Yuan et al. 2018) 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 487 pins and the upper dowel pins move downward until they reach the wafer surface, and then loads are applied by upper pins moving downward on the unsupported corners of the wafers until the breakage. Nevertheless, the stress distribution of twist test is nonlinear (Schoenfelder et al. 2007), and a characteristic fracture strength value can be deﬁned as σ = CFb/ld 2 for evaluation, where C is a constant (C was set as 2 in this work), F is the fracture force, d the wafer thickness, and l and b the geometric parameters for wafer and tester, which are 156 and 130 mm, respectively. The Weibull method describes the failure probability as a function of strength, Pf ¼ 1  exp  σ=σθ ð Þ ½ m, where Pf is the failure probability at the applied stress σ and σθ and m are deﬁned as the characteristic strength and the Weibull modulus, respectively. Pf = (n  1/2)/N, dependent on its ranking number, n (N is the total number of samples). σθ equals to the stress when 63% of all samples fail and m describes the variability of strength data. High m value means smaller scattering of σ. Therefore, through a linear ﬁt of ln (ln(1  Pf)) versus ln σ, σθ and m can be determined from the slope and intercept. Figure 12 also shows the Weibull distribution of the fracture strength of wafers from the ingots grown in N2 and Ar, the total number of wafers is 36 and 37, and the characteristic strengths are 175.62 and 159.61 MPa, respectively. It is clear that the wafers from the ingot grown in nitrogen are statically harder. Impact of N-O Complexes in Mc-Si Grown in Ambient N2 The increase in N concentration in mc-Si grown in ambient N2 may cause increase in N-O concentration. N-O complexes introduce shallow thermal donors (STD) in silicon and may cause compensation in p-type mc-Si. As mentioned above, the fraction range of N-O complexes in mc-Si is 1040% considering Oi concentration; therefore, when the total N concentration reaches 1016 cm3, the STD concentration can be higher than 1015 cm3, when the inﬂuence on resistivity cannot be easily ignored. Figure 13a shows the resistivity distribution of ingots grown in N2 and Ar along the ingot height. It is interesting that the resistivity of N-doped ingot grown in N2 increases with ingot height, while that of the referential ingot grown in Ar decreases normally. Since the boron doping is same for both ingots, the difference in resistivity distribution between the two ingots is attributed to the formation of N-O complexes, which serve as shallow donors and compensate boron acceptors (Yang et al. 1996). Note that N-O complexes also exist in normal mc-Si grown in argon, and they are commonly eliminated during phosphorus diffusion process (by annealing under 800900 C for 30 min) so that the substrate material of ﬁnal Al-BSF solar cell is not compensated. Figure 13b shows the resistivity variation of samples sliced from the top of N-doped and referential ingots, after the annealing under 900 C and then 650 C to degenerate and regenerate N-O complexes, respectively. The corresponding interstitial oxygen concentration at the ingot top is measured to be 488 S. Yuan and D. Yang 6.8  1016 cm3 by FTIR. The resistivity of the N-doped sample obviously decreases when annealed under 900 C and increases when latterly annealed under 650 C. It can be explained by the degeneration and regeneration of N-O complexes in N-doped samples. Standard Al-BSF solar cells based on wafers from the ingot grown in N2 with reduced pressure were fabricated. Since it has been shown that thermal annealing in Al-BSF cell manufacturing cannot totally eliminate N-O complex shallow donors, then the bulk resistivity of NMC1 wafers is higher than the reference after annealing under 900 C, which causes higher series resistivity and lower ﬁll factor of the solar cells. The distributions of ﬁll factor values are shown in Fig. 14a. As a result, Fig. 14b shows the distribution of solar cell efﬁciencies for both kinds of the wafers. The average efﬁciencies are almost the same for the solar cells based on the ingot NMC1 and MC, which are 17.91% and 17.96%, respectively. This indicates that the high concentration of nitrogen has a little inﬂuence on solar cell performances. It can 4 a b 3 2 Resistivity (Ω cm) Average resistivity (Ω cm) 1 4 3 2 1 0 As grown 900C 30 min 900C 60 min 900C 60 min +650C 120 min 0 20 40 60 Ingot height (%) 80 100 Ar N2 Ar N2 Calculated Fig. 13 (a) The resistivity distribution of B-doped p-type ingots grown in N2 and Ar ambient versus various ingot heights. (b) The variation of average resistivity of top samples from the ingots grown in N2 and Ar after various thermal annealings (Yuan et al. 2018) Fig. 14 (a) Fill factor distribution of solar cells. (b) The resistivity variation after heat treatment of top samples sliced from ingot NMC1 and ingot MC (Yuan et al. 2018) 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 489 be inferred that a better overall resistivity distribution of the whole ingot can be obtained if N-O complex-related compensation is well controlled. For the consider- ation of application of N-doped silicon, an additional B doping should be adopted to ﬁt the cell manufacturing process. Conclusion This chapter reviews the basic properties of nitrogen in photovoltaic silicon mate- rials. The development of N-doped CZ-Si wafers is crucial for IC industry. As NCZ-Si has not been widely used in photovoltaic ﬁelds, related knowledge from the perspective of possible photovoltaic application are introduced. As for mc-Si, nitrogen impurity is important subject in casting method due to Si3N4-coated crucibles. The concepts of the existence, transportation, and inﬂuence of N-related defects are introduced and described to the readers to help understand the relevant phenomena during the solidiﬁcation process. Finally, cheaper ambient nitrogen for casting multicrystalline silicon ingots has been achieved with comparable crystal quality and solar cell conversion efﬁciency. Cross-References Carbon Impurity in Crystalline Silicon Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method Acknowledgments The authors would like to thank the ﬁnancial support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 51532007, 61721005). It was also partly supported by Key Project of Zhejiang Province (No. 2018C01034). References C. Alpass, J. Murphy, R. Falster, P. Wilshaw, Nitrogen in silicon: diffusion at 500750 C and interaction with dislocations. Mater. Sci. Eng. B 159, 9598 (2009) H.C. Alt, H. Wagner, Piezospectroscopy of nitrogen-oxygen shallow donor complexes in silicon. Phys. Rev. B 82(11), 115203 (2010) H.C. Alt, Y. Gomeniuk, F. Bittersberger, A. Kempf, D. Zemke, Analysis of electrically active N-O complexes in nitrogen-doped CZ silicon crystals by FTIR spectroscopy. Mater. Sci. Semicond. Process. 9(13), 114116 (2006) P.M. Anderson, in Nanoscale Materials and Modeling  Relations Among Processing, Microstruc- ture and Mechanical Properties: Symposium held April 1316, 2004, San Francisco, California, vol 821. Materials Research Society 490 S. Yuan and D. Yang J. Bauer, O. Breitenstein, J.P. Rakotoniaina, Electronic activity of SiC precipitates in multi- crystalline solar silicon. Phys. Status Solidi A 204(7), 21902195 (2007) O. Breitenstein, J. Rakotoniaina, M.H. Al Rifai, M. Werner, Shunt types in crystalline silicon solar cells. Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 12(7), 529538 (2004) P.H. Bucksbaum, J. Bokor, Rapid melting and regrowth velocities in silicon heated by ultraviolet picosecond laser pulses. Phys. Rev. Lett. 53(2), 182 (1984) T. Buonassisi, A.A. Istratov, M. Pickett, J.-P. Rakotoniaina, O. Breitenstein, M.A. Marcus, S.M. Heald, E.R. Weber, Transition metals in photovoltaic-grade ingot-cast multicrystalline silicon: assessing the role of impurities in silicon nitride crucible lining material. J. Cryst. Growth 287(2), 402407 (2006) D. Chakraborty, J. Mukerji, Characterization of silicon nitride single crystals and polycrystalline reaction sintered silicon nitride by microhardness measurements. J. Mater. Sci. 15(12), 30513056 (1980) J. Chen, D. Yang, X. Ma, Z. Zeng, D. Tian, L. Li, D. Que, L. Gong, Inﬂuence of germanium doping on the mechanical strength of Czochralski silicon wafers. J. Appl. Phys. 103(12), 123521 (2008) L. Chen, X. Yu, P. Chen, P. Wang, X. Gu, J. Lu, D. Yang, Effect of oxygen precipitation on the performance of Czochralski silicon solar cells. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 95(11), 31483151 (2011). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.solmat.2011.06.044 A. Clark, J.D. Macdougall, K.E. Manchester, P. Roughan, F. Anderson, Nitrogen Donor Level in Silicon, Bulletin of the American Physical Society, vol 3 (American Institute of Physics Circulation and Fulﬁllment Division, Woodbury, 1968), p. 376 G. Du, L. Zhou, P. Rossetto, Y. Wan, Hard inclusions and their detrimental effects on the wire sawing process of multicrystalline silicon. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 91(18), 17431748 (2007) G. Du, N. Chen, P. Rossetto, Wire-sawing defects on multicrystalline silicon wafers grown by a directional solidiﬁcation method. Semicond. Sci. Technol. 23(5), 055011 (2008) C. Ewels, R. Jones, S. Öberg, J. Miro, P. Deak, Shallow thermal donor defects in silicon. Phys. Rev. Lett. 77(5), 865 (1996) N. Fujita, R. Jones, J. Goss, P. Briddon, T. Frauenheim, S. Öberg, Diffusion of nitrogen in silicon. Appl. Phys. Lett. 87(2), 021902 (2005) V. Ganapati, S. Schoenfelder, S. Castellanos, S. Oener, R. Koepge, A. Sampson, M.A. Marcus, B. Lai, H. Morhenn, G. Hahn, Infrared birefringence imaging of residual stress and bulk defects in multicrystalline silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 108(6), 063528 (2010) M. Ghosh, D. Yang, A. Lawerenz, S. Riedel, H. Moller, Investigation of minority carrier lifetime degradation in multicrystalline silicon ingots, in Proceedings of the 14th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, (1997), pp. 724727 J. Goss, I. Hahn, R. Jones, P. Briddon, S. Öberg, Vibrational modes and electronic properties of nitrogen defects in silicon. Phys. Rev. B 67(4), 045206 (2003) J. Grifﬁn, J. Hartung, J. Weber, H. Navarro, L. Genzel, Photothermal ionisation spectroscopy of oxygen-related shallow defects in crystalline silicon. Appl. Phys. A. 48(1), 4147 (1989) A. Hara, T. Fukuda, T. Miyabo, I. Hirai, Electron spin resonance of oxygen-nitrogen complex in silicon. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 28(1R), 142 (1989) P. Hemment, R. Peart, M. Yao, K. Stephens, R. Chater, J. Kilner, D. Meekison, G. Booker, R. Arrowsmith, High quality silicon on insulator structures formed by the thermal redistribution of implanted nitrogen. Appl. Phys. Lett. 46(10), 952954 (1985) R. Hockett, Anomalous diffusion of nitrogen in nitrogen-implanted silicon. Appl. Phys. Lett. 54 (18), 17931795 (1989) R. Hockett, D. Sams, The measurement of nitrogen in silicon substrates by SIMS, in Proceedings- SPIE the International Society for Optical Engineering, 2000, (International Society for Optical Engineering, 1999), pp. 584595 S. Hu, W. Patrick, Effect of oxygen on dislocation movement in silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 46(5), 18691874 (1975) T. Itoh, T. Abe, Diffusion coefﬁcient of a pair of nitrogen atoms in ﬂoat-zone silicon. Appl. Phys. Lett. 53(1), 3941 (1988). https://doi.org/10.1063/1.100116 Y. Itoh, T. Nozaki, T. Masui, T. Abe, Calibration curve for infrared spectrophotometry of nitrogen in silicon. Appl. Phys. Lett. 47(5), 488489 (1985) 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 491 R. Jones, C. Ewels, J. Goss, J. Miro, P. Deak, S. Oberg, F.B. Rasmussen, Theoretical and isotopic infrared absorption investigations of nitrogen-oxygen defects in silicon. Semicond. Sci. Technol. 9(11), 2145 (1994a) R. Jones, S. Öberg, F.B. Rasmussen, B.B. Nielsen, Identiﬁcation of the dominant nitrogen defect in silicon. Phys. Rev. Lett. 72(12), 1882 (1994b) W. Kaiser, C. Thurmond, Nitrogen in silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 30(3), 427431 (1959) A. Karoui, G. Rozgonyi, Oxygen precipitation in nitrogen doped Czochralski silicon wafers. II. Effects of nitrogen and oxygen coupling. J. Appl. Phys. 96(6), 32643271 (2004) H. Kusunoki, T. Ishizuka, A. Ogura, H. Ono, Complementary distribution of NN and NNO complexes in cast-grown multicrystalline silicon for photovoltaic cells. Appl. Phys. Express 4 (11), 115601 (2011) J. Li, R.R. Prakash, K. Jiptner, J. Chen, Y. Miyamura, H. Harada, K. Kakimoto, A. Ogura, T. Sekiguchi, Butterﬂy-shaped distribution of SiNx precipitates in multi-crystalline Si for solar cells. J. Cryst. Growth 377, 3742 (2013) J. Li, X. Yu, S. Yuan, L. Yang, Z. Liu, D. Yang, Effects of oxygen related thermal donors on the performance of silicon heterojunction solar cells. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 179, 1721 (2018) H. Lu, D. Yang, L. Li, Z. Ye, D. Que, Thermal warpage of Czochralski silicon wafers grown under a nitrogen ambience. Phys. Status Solidi A 169(2), 193198 (1998) G. Mannino, V. Privitera, S. Scalese, S. Libertino, E. Napolitani, P. Pichler, N.E. Cowern, Effect of oxygen on the diffusion of nitrogen implanted in silicon. Electrochem. Solid-State Lett. 7(8), G161G163 (2004) J. Murphy, A. Giannattasio, S. Senkader, R. Falster, P. Wilshaw, Nitrogen transport in ﬂoat-zone and Czochralski silicon investigated by dislocation locking experiments. Phys. Status Solidi A 202 (5), 926930 (2005) J.D. Murphy, C. Alpass, A. Giannattasio, S. Senkader, R. Falster, P. Wilshaw, Nitrogen in silicon: transport and mechanical properties. Nucl. Instrum. Methods Phys. Res., Sect. B 253(1), 113117 (2006) M. Nakatsu, A. Hashimoto, A. Natsume, N. Inoue, H. Ono, Measurement of nitrogen concentration in cz-si below 1014/cm3 by IR absorption spectroscopy, in High Purity Silicon VIII: Pro- ceedings of the International Symposium, (The Electrochemical Society, 2004), p. 102 J. Nelson, P. Schultz, A. Wright, Valence and atomic size dependent exchange barriers in vacancy- mediated dopant diffusion. Appl. Phys. Lett. 73(2), 247249 (1998) T. Nozaki, Y. Yatsurugi, N. Akiyama, Charged particle activation analysis for carbon, nitrogen and oxygen in semiconductor silicon. J. Radioanal. Nucl. Chem. 4(1), 8798 (1970) H. Ono, M. Horikawa, Quantitative detection of small amount of nitrogen in Czochralski-grown silicon crystals. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 42(3B), L261 (2003) V. Orlov, H. Richter, A. Fischer, J. Reif, T. Müller, R. Wahlich, Mechanical properties of nitrogen- doped CZ silicon crystals. Mater. Sci. Semicond. Process. 5(45), 403407 (2002) P. Pavlov, E. Zorin, D. Tetelbaum, A. Khokhlov, Nitrogen as dopant in silicon and germanium. Phys. Status Solidi A 35(1), 1136 (1976) M. Porrini, M. Pretto, R. Scala, Measurement of nitrogen in Czochralski silicon by means of infrared spectroscopy. Mater. Sci. Eng. B 102(1), 228232 (2003) M. Qi, S. Tan, B. Zhu, P. Cai, W. Gu, X. Xu, T. Shi, D. Que, L. Li, The evidence for interaction of the N-N pair with oxygen in Czochralski silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 69(6), 37753777 (1991) D. Que, X. Chen, Silicon Materials Science and Technology (Zhejiang University Press, Hangzhou, China, 2000). (in Chinese) D. Que, L. Li, Y. Lin, Nitrogen protective ambiance for Czochralski growth of silicon. Chinese Patent CN85100295, 1985 D. Que, L. Li, X. Chen, Nitrogen gas doping in Czochralski silicon. Chinese Patent CN87105811, 1987 D. Que, L. Li, X. Chen, Y. Lin, J. Zhang, X. Zhou, J. Yang, Czochralski silicon crystal growth in nitrogen atmosphere under reduced pressure. Sci. China Ser. A Math. Phys. Astron. Technol. Sci. 34(8), 10171024 (1991) 492 S. Yuan and D. Yang C. Reimann, M. Trempa, J. Friedrich, G. Müller, About the formation and avoidance of C and N related precipitates during directional solidiﬁcation of multi-crystalline silicon from contami- nated feedstock. J. Cryst. Growth 312(9), 15101516 (2010) S. Richter, J. Bauer, O. Breitenstein, Growth of carbon and nitrogen containing precipitates in crystalline solar silicon and their inﬂuence on solar cells. Phys. Status Solidi RRL 11(2), 1600354 (2017) H. Sawada, H. Kawakami, First-principles calculation of the interaction between nitrogen atoms and vacancies in silicon. Phys. Rev. B 62(3), 1851 (2000) H. Sawada, K. Kawakami, A. Ikari, W. Ohashi, Atomistic model of nitrogen-pair diffusion in silicon. Phys. Rev. B 65(7), 075201 (2002) S. Schoenfelder, A. Bohne, J. Bagdahn, Comparison of test methods for strength characterization of thin solar wafer. in Proceedings of 22nd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, Milan, Italy, 2007, vol 7 S. Schoenfelder, A. Sampson, V. Ganapati, R. Koepge, J. Bagdahn, T. Buonassisi, Quantitative stress measurements of bulk microdefects in multicrystalline silicon. 24th EUPVSEC:977980 (2009) P.A. Schultz, J.S. Nelson, Fast through-bond diffusion of nitrogen in silicon. Appl. Phys. Lett. 78 (6), 736738 (2001) L.L. Snead, T. Nozawa, Y. Katoh, T.-S. Byun, S. Kondo, D.A. Petti, Handbook of SiC properties for fuel performance modeling. J. Nucl. Mater. 371(13), 329377 (2007) A. Søiland, E. Øvrelid, T. Engh, O. Lohne, J. Tuset, Ø. Gjerstad, SiC and Si3N4 inclusions in multicrystalline silicon ingots. Mater. Sci. Semicond. Process. 7(1), 3943 (2004) N. Stoddard, P. Pichler, G. Duscher, W. Windl, Ab initio identiﬁcation of the nitrogen diffusion mechanism in silicon. Phys. Rev. Lett. 95(2), 025901 (2005) M. Suezawa, K. Sumino, H. Harada, T. Abe, Nitrogen-oxygen complexes as shallow donors in silicon crystals. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 25(10A), L859 (1986) M. Suezawa, K. Sumino, H. Harada, T. Abe, The nature of nitrogen-oxygen complexes in silicon. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. Part 1 27(1), 6267 (1988). https://doi.org/10.1143/jjap.27.62 K. Sumino, I. Yonenaga, M. Imai, T. Abe, Effects of nitrogen on dislocation behavior and mechanical strength in silicon crystals. J. Appl. Phys. 54(9), 50165020 (1983) Y. Tokumaru, H. Okushi, T. Masui, T. Abe, Deep levels associated with nitrogen in silicon. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 21(7A), L443 (1982) M. Trempa, C. Reimann, J. Friedrich, G. Müller, The inﬂuence of growth rate on the formation and avoidance of C and N related precipitates during directional solidiﬁcation of multi crystalline silicon. J. Cryst. Growth 312(9), 15171524 (2010) L. Vandeperre, F. Giuliani, S. Lloyd, W. Clegg, The hardness of silicon and germanium. Acta Mater. 55(18), 63076315 (2007) J. Vedde, P. Gravesen, The fracture strength of nitrogen doped silicon wafers. Mater. Sci. Eng. B 36 (13), 246250 (1996) V.V. Voronkov, R.J. Falster, Nitrogen diffusion and interaction with oxygen in Si. in Solid State Phenomena, 2004. Trans Tech Publ, pp. 8392 P. Wagner, R. Oeder, W. Zulehner, Nitrogen-oxygen complexes in Czochralski-silicon. Appl. Phys. A 46(2), 7376 (1988) H. Wagner, H.C. Alt, W. von Ammon, F. Bittersberger, A. Huber, L. Koester, N-O related shallow donors in silicon: stoichiometry investigations. Appl. Phys. Lett. 91(15), 152102 (2007) G. Wang, D. Yang, D. Li, Q. Shui, J. Yang, D. Que, Mechanical strength of nitrogen-doped silicon single crystal investigated by three-point bending method. Phys. B Condens. Matter 308, 450453 (2001) D. Yang, X. Yu, Nitrogen in Silicon. Defect Diffus. Forum 230232, 199220 (2004) D. Yang, D. Que, K. Sumino, Nitrogen effects on thermal donor and shallow thermal donor in silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 77(2), 943944 (1995) D. Yang, R. Fan, L. Li, D. Que, K. Sumino, Effect of nitrogenoxygen complex on electrical properties of Czochralski silicon. Appl. Phys. Lett. 68(4), 487489 (1996) 16 Nitrogen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon 493 D. Yang, X. Yu, D. Que, Nitrogen doping in casting multicrystalline silicon by melting feedstocks in nitrogen ambience. Chinese Patent CN101597790, 2009 Y. Yatsurugi, N. Akiyama, Y. Endo, T. Nozaki, Concentration, solubility, and equilibrium distribu- tion coefﬁcient of nitrogen and oxygen in semiconductor silicon. J. Electrochem. Soc. 120(7), 975979 (1973) I. Yonenaga, Dislocationimpurity interaction in Si. Mater. Sci. Eng. B 124, 293296 (2005) I. Yonenaga, K. Sumino, K. Hoshi, Mechanical strength of silicon crystals as a function of the oxygen concentration. J. Appl. Phys. 56(8), 23462350 (1984) I. Yonenaga, T. Taishi, X. Huang, K. Hoshikawa, Dislocationimpurity interaction in Czochralski- grown Si heavily doped with B and Ge. J. Cryst. Growth 275(12), e501e505 (2005) X. Yu, D. Yang, X. Ma, J. Yang, L. Li, D. Que, Grown-in defects in nitrogen-doped Czochralski silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 92, 188194 (2002) X. Yu, D. Yang, K. Hoshikawa, Investigation of nitrogen behaviors during Czochralski silicon crystal growth. J. Cryst. Growth 318(1), 178182 (2011) X. Yu, J. Chen, X. Ma, D. Yang, Impurity engineering of Czochralski silicon. Mater. Sci. Eng. R. Rep. 74(1), 133 (2013) S. Yuan, D. Hu, X. Yu, F. Zhang, H. Luo, L. He, D. Yang, Controllable Nitrogen Doping in Multicrystalline Silicon by Casting Under Low Cost Ambient Nitrogen. Silicon 16 (2018) H. Zhang, M. Stavola, M. Seacrist, Nitrogen-containing point defects in multi-crystalline Si solar- cell materials. J. Appl. Phys. 114(9), 093707 (2013) 494 S. Yuan and D. Yang Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 17 Eugene B. Yakimov Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 496 Solubility of Transition Metals .................................................................. 497 Diffusion of Transition Metals .................................................................. 500 Electrical Properties of Transition Metals in Si ................................................. 505 Iron ........................................................................................... 505 Nickel ........................................................................................ 509 Copper ........................................................................................ 510 Chromium .................................................................................... 511 Cobalt ........................................................................................ 512 Titanium ...................................................................................... 512 Gold .......................................................................................... 513 Silver ......................................................................................... 513 Zinc ........................................................................................... 514 Manganese ................................................................................... 514 Effect of Metals on Solar Cell Efﬁciency ....................................................... 514 Metal Interaction with Extended Defects ....................................................... 520 Metal Impurities Gettering ...................................................................... 528 Hydrogen Passivation ........................................................................... 533 Conclusion ....................................................................................... 538 Cross-References ................................................................................ 539 References ....................................................................................... 539 Abstract Solar-grade Si usually contains a considerable amount of metal impurities and extended defects. The detrimental effect of transition metals on solar cell perfor- mance is well documented. This necessitates a study of transition metal properties in E. B. Yakimov (*) Institute of Microelectronics Technology, Russian Academy of Science, Chernogolovka, Russia National University of Science and Technology, MISiS, Moscow, Russia e-mail: yakimov@iptm.ru  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_23 495 Si and their interaction with point and extended defects. Such studies will form the basis for the development of procedures on suppressing the detrimental effects of transition metals. This chapter brieﬂy describes the solubilities, diffusivities, and electrical properties of metal impurities that are most frequently detected in multi- crystalline silicon. The diffusion length values necessary for highly efﬁcient crystal- line silicon solar cells, which set a limit on the electrically active metal concentration, are estimated. The effects of dislocations and grain boundaries on the effective diffusion length are evaluated. Finally, the efﬁciency of gettering and hydrogen passivation procedures used in silicon solar cell technology is considered. Keywords Transition metals  Silicon  Lifetime  Extended defects  Gettering  Hydrogen passivation Introduction One of the main requirements for silicon in photovoltaic application is the high excess carrier lifetime τ (or diffusion length) because this parameter determines the efﬁciency of solar cells to a great extent. However, there is also a considerable interest in reducing the cost of solar-grade Si. For this reason, multicrystalline Si wafers produced by casting or Si ribbons are mainly used in Si-based photovoltaics instead of high-quality monocrystalline wafers. These materials usually contain a considerable amount of metal impurities and extended defects, which are widely believed to be the most dangerous lifetime killers in crystalline silicon; for this reason, their concentrations should be minimized. One of the proposed approaches to reduce material cost is through the use of metallurgical-grade Si for wafer growth, which can reduce chemical purity even further. Thus, the requirements for low metal concentration that are necessary for photovoltaic applications are in conﬂict with the need to reduce material cost. As shown by Istratov et al. (2006), the concentration of Fe, Cr, Ni, and Cu in multi- crystalline Si (mc-Si) solar cells is greater than 1014 cm3. Only boron, oxygen, and carbon are detected in higher concentrations. The concentration of other impurities is usually less than 1013 cm3. A more recent analysis carried out by Stokkan et al. (2017) in mc-Si ingot showed that only Co, Cr, Fe, Zn, and Ni concentrations exceeded 1012 cm3. In mc-Si ingot grown by the Bridgman method from reﬁned metallurgical silicon, notably high concentrations of Ti, Al, and Mn were revealed in addition to the previously mentioned impurities (Peshcherova et al. 2015). As shown in Heinz et al. (2014) and Orlov et al. (2017), aluminum spikes can be a reason for shunts or prebreakdown site formation in solar elements; however, it can be expected that their effect on the excess carrier recombination rate is not signiﬁ- cant. Usually only a small fraction of metal impurities is electrically active because most of them precipitate via a homogeneous nucleation or via a nucleation on the numerous extended defects, such as dislocations and grain boundaries. However, even in this state, they can degrade solar cell performance because some precipitates 496 E. B. Yakimov  especially those formed on extended defects  demonstrate recombination activity. Moreover, temperature treatment during contact ﬁring procedures can lead to pre- cipitate dissolution and metal impurity redistribution and activation. Both metal impurities and extended defects usually lead to an increase of the excess carrier recombination rate and thus to a decrease of solar cell efﬁciency. It is well known that extended defect recombination activity increases due to their decoration with metal impurities. Therefore, one of the ways to suppress the metal impurity effect on solar cell efﬁciency is to transfer the harmful impurities to any electrically inactive state or remove them from the cell by a gettering procedure. For electronic devices, usually a thin subsurface layer is active; therefore, procedures can be used to remove the harmful impurities from the active regions, transfer them to pre-designed regions where they are unimportant for the device performance, and conﬁne them to these regions. If these regions are located inside the wafer, the corresponding procedures are referred to as intrinsic gettering. Such getters may be oxygen precipitates or nanocavities produced by hydrogen or helium implantation. Solar cells are devices in which whole wafer is active; therefore, the excess carrier recombination rate should be suppressed in the whole wafer. For many metal atoms, their precipitation decreases in total the harmful effect on the lifetime; however, processes that totally remove the detrimental impurities from the wafer are usually more effective. Such processes are classiﬁed as external gettering. Another way to reduce the electrical activity of metal and extended defects without removing them from the active device region is their passivation by hydrogen. This procedure is also widely used in combination with gettering to improve the efﬁciency of solar cells. However, its efﬁciency relative to all metal impurities is not so obvious. Moreover, the stability of many hydrogen-related complexes is not high enough. This chapter brieﬂy discusses the properties of metal impurities that are usually detected in mc-Si (Fe, Ni, Cu, Cr, Co, Ti, Au, Ag, Zn, and Mn) and can degrade the performance of Si-based solar cells. Their effects on the excess carrier diffusion length are estimated. The interaction of metal impurities with dislocations and grain boundaries is considered. The effects of clean and contaminated with metals extended defects on the effective diffusion length of multicrystalline materials are estimated. The common gettering procedures used in Si-based solar cell technology are discussed. Special attention is paid to metal interactions with hydrogen because hydrogen passivation is now widely used in the production of highly efﬁcient crystalline silicon solar cells (Lee et al. 2018); such passivation can be especially effective when used in combination with gettering procedures. Solubility of Transition Metals The solubility of foreign atoms usually refers to the amount that can be held by the crystal structure without precipitation of a second phase. Thus, the solubility of any particular impurity in Si is deﬁned as its maximum concentration that can be dissolved in the lattice at a given temperature, when the equilibrium between its solid solution is established with respect to the silicon-richest binary impurity-Si 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 497 phase. At thermal equilibrium, the solid solubility of an impurity in Si is determined by the condition minimizing the Gibbs free energy. In the dilute limit at temperatures lower than the eutectic temperature Teut, it can be usually described as follows: S ¼ 5  1022exp ΔG=kT ð Þ ¼ S0exp ΔH=kT ð Þ, (1) Here, ΔG = ΔHTΔS is the excess Gibbs free energy for impurity introduction in Si; ΔH and ΔS are the corresponding values of excess enthalpy and entropy, respectively; k is the Boltzmann constant; and T is temperature. It can be seen that the solubility decreases drastically when the temperature decreases. As a result, the dissolved impurities become increasingly supersaturated under cooling, which provides the driving force for their precipitation. The parameters used in Eq. 1 for some transition metals are shown in Table 1. The applicable temperature ranges for Eq. 1 are also presented in Table 1. More information about metal solubility and diffusivity can be found in Graff (2000), Pizzini (2012), and Claeys and Simoen (2018). In most eutectic systems, the point of maximum solid solubility of an element dissolved within a solid matrix occurs at the binary eutectic temperature. However, when the enthalpy of a point defect formation of a dissolved element within a matrix is large, as is the case for many transition metal point defects in silicon, the point of maximum solid solubility can occur at temperatures of several hundred degrees above the eutectic temperature. Precipitates formed at temperatures below the eutectic point can be explained by classical precipitation models, and this tempera- ture range is the most interesting for the problems discussed in this chapter. The chemical states of all measured precipitates are equilibrium single-metal silicides; as a rule, no mixed metal silicide systems are observed in that case, although the formation of such silicides cannot be totally excluded. Precipitate nucleation and growth are facilitated by strain minimization and the presence of extended defects. The eutectic temperatures for the metals discussed are also presented in Table 1. Generally speaking, every foreign atom may occupy both substitutional and interstitial sites in the lattice. Thus, in a common case, the solubility described by Eq. 1 consists of contributions from interstitial and substitutional species with the Table 1 Parameters describing solubility of some transition metals in intrinsic Si S0, cm3 ΔH, eV T range, C T eutectic, C Fe 8.4  1025 2.94 9001200 1207 Ni 1.23  1024 1.68 500950 966 Cu 5.5  1023 1.49 500800 802 Cr 5.5  1024 2.79 9001300 1335 Co 1  1026 2.83 7001200 1259 Ti 3.4  1024 3.05 9501200 1330 Au 1  1024 1.98 8001100 359 Ag 5.3  1024 2.78 10251325 845 Zn 7.1  1025 2.49 8401200 420 Mn 6.1  1025 2.8 9001150 1149 498 E. B. Yakimov corresponding values of Gibbs free energy. For most impurities, the solubility in the substitution and interstitial states differs by a few orders of magnitudes; therefore, it could be important for describing the microscopic diffusion mechanism but not for the total solubility. However, the equilibrium solubilities on the substitution and interstitial sites can depend sensitively on the solute, the solvent, and the tempera- ture. This can lead to appreciable changes in the interstitial to substitutional concen- tration relationship with temperature; in some conditions, the solubilities in both positions could be comparable, so both should be taken into account. In general, foreign atoms in semiconductors may carry electronic charges. There- fore, the position of the Fermi level can also affect their solubility. A concomitant phenomenon is that the ratio between the equilibrium interstitial to substitutional concentrations may change with background doping because of the different elec- tronic structures of the impurities in these states. In particular, for impurities with energy levels inside the bandgap, neutral and the charged species exist; their relative concentrations depend on the position of the energy level relative to the Fermi level. This is a reason why the contributions of neutral and charged species to the solubility depend on the Fermi level position  that is, on the dopant concentration. It is especially important for low temperatures and high dopant concentrations. Some- times, this can lead to dramatic effects. Thus, it is well established that positively charged interstitial species dominate in extrinsic p-type materials, whereas nega- tively charged substitutional metal impurities prevail in extrinsic n-type silicon. For this reason, the solubilities in highly doped n- and p-types Si can strongly differ. As an example, the predominant species of cobalt in intrinsic Si is interstitial Coi, and it is a donor. By contrast, in heavily phosphorous-doped Si, acceptor-like substitu- tional Cos becomes more abundant. In highly doped Si, metal solubility can strongly increase in comparison with an intrinsic material. Thus, an enhancement of the solubility of Mn, Fe, and Co in phosphorus-doped Si can reach four orders of magnitude, which is mainly deter- mined by a change of the impurity charge state. In addition, metals can form pairs with shallow donor or acceptor impurities, which also can increase the metal impurity solubility in highly doped Si. It is widely believed that the enhanced solubility of transition metals in highly boron-doped Si is mainly due to mobile interstitial species and their pairing with boron, whereas the enhanced solubility in highly phosphorus-doped Si is due to immobile substitutional species and their pairing with phosphorus. This is very important for understanding the mechanisms of gettering by highly doped Si layers. It should be also stressed that the parameters presented in Table 1 were obtained for the intrinsic Si in thermal equilibrium. Strictly speaking, the term solubility is also related to equilibrium conditions only. If the equilibrium is not reached, such as after a rather short annealing and/or at low temperatures, the concentration can exceed the solubility value. Thus, the solubility of Cu and Ni extrapolated to room temperature is negligible. Nevertheless, it is well known that both impurities can be introduced at room temperature during chemical mechanical polishing in measurable concentrations (Zundel et al. 1988; Yarykin and Weber 2016). In addition, as shown in Koveshnikov et al. (1989), gold can be introduced in Si at room temperature by 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 499 rf SF6-O2 plasma treatment. Such treatment can introduce also Cu and Ni at a depth of a few micrometers. Another option to reach impurity concentrations that are higher than the solubility limit is to quench the samples from a high temperature, at which the equilibrium is established. A well-known example of this case is the oxygen in Si. Supersaturation is a state with higher free energy; therefore, impurities tend to form precipitates or diffuse to the surface to decrease energy. However, both procedures need high enough diffusivity. For this reason, it is practically impossible to quench interstitial copper with higher diffusivity, although it is possible for iron with much lower diffusivity at room temperature. Diffusion of Transition Metals It is a well-known fact that 3d transition-metal impurities are among the fastest diffusing species in intrinsic silicon. Usually, the diffusion coefﬁcients as a function of temperature can be expressed as follows: D T ð Þ ¼ D0exp ΔHm=kT ð Þ (2) Here, D0 is the pre-exponential factor and ΔHm is the migration barrier. Both coefﬁcients depend on the diffusion mechanism. The parameters for some transition metals frequently found in mc-Si are shown in Table 2. The open structure of the diamond lattice favors interstitial incorporation of foreign atoms. For this reason, interstitial diffusion and interstitial-substitutional exchange diffusion via the dissociative or kick-out mechanisms are rather prominent in Si. Many transition metals, including copper, iron, nickel, chromium, and cobalt, can dissolve in Si on interstitial sites  that is, on tetrahedral, hexagonal, or bond- centered positions between the lattice atoms. Foreign atoms with interstitial site preferences can hop from one interstitial site to another. In other words, they diffuse Table 2 Parameters describing the diffusivity of some transition metals in intrinsic Si D0, cm2/s ΔHm, eV T range, C Fei 1.3  103 0.68 301200 Nii 1.69  104 0.15 665885 Cui 4.5  103 0.39 90930 Cr 6.8  104 0.79 27400 1  102 0.99 9001250 Co 4.2  103 0.53 9001100 Ti 1.2  101 2.05 6001150 Au 2.58  102 0.965 8001100 Ag 0.6 1.15 8501100 Zn 0.64 1.85 8701210 Mn 1.63  103 0.71 141200 500 E. B. Yakimov by the direct interstitial mechanism. As a rule, atom concentrations on such intersti- tial sites are low. Therefore, the diffusion over these sites does not involve direct interaction with intrinsic point defects; however, this does not mean that such interaction is impossible. For this reason, the interstitial diffusion coefﬁcients are usually orders of magnitude larger than those for other mechanisms, and there is no connection of this mechanism with self-diffusion of the semiconductor host. Due to a huge difference in the diffusivities of substitutional and interstitial species, it is very difﬁcult to measure diffusivity for substitutional species when both states are possible; thus, it has been done for a only few metals. For example, the diffusivity over substitutional sites were measured for nickel in the temperature range from 450 C to 800 C, where it can be described as Ds = 0.1 exp(1.92eV/kT) cm2/s. Pure substitutional diffusion needs assistance from additional intrinsic point defects, such as vacancies or silicon self-interstitials. If a metal impurity resides predominantly on substitutional sites but its diffusion proceeds via an interstitial position, then such an impurity is frequently denoted as a hybrid diffuser; the mechanisms of its diffusion are called interstitial-substitutional exchange mecha- nisms. The high diffusivities of hybrid elements have two major causes: a non-negligible fraction of these foreign atoms resides in interstitial sites of the lattice, and the migration enthalpies controlling jumps of these atoms from interstice to interstice should be small due to the weak coupling to the host lattice. Two main models are usually discussed to describe interstitial-substitutional exchange mech- anisms of diffusion: the Frank-Turnbull model or the dissociative mechanism and the kick-out mechanism. The ﬁrst model assumes that interstitially diffusing impurity atoms occupy preexisting vacancies, which are generated in thermal equilibrium or are frozen as vacancy-related clusters. At high enough temperatures, the missing vacancy can be then replaced by a vacancy diffusing from the sample surface or from any other vacancy source within the bulk of the crystal. For this mechanism, the vacancy diffusion is the limiting factor. In the kick-out mechanism, impurity atoms diffuse very fast over interstitial sites; then, the substitution species of hybrid diffusers are formed by kicking out silicon atoms from the lattice sites. This mechanism does not allow the diffusion coefﬁcient for the interstitial atoms to be measured directly because the impurity proﬁles are determined by the effective diffusion in a common case depending on coordinates. In this case, the interstitial atom diffusion coefﬁcient can be only obtained by ﬁtting the impurity proﬁles. In Si with relatively low defect density, the effective diffusion coefﬁcient can be described as follows: Deff ¼ N eq s N eq I DI   =N 2 s (3) Here, Neq s is the equilibrium impurity concentration at substitutional sites; Neq I and DI are the self-interstitial equilibrium concentration and diffusivity, respectively; and Ns is the impurity concentration at substitutional sites. In defect-free Si, the equilibrium interstitial impurity distribution is established rather fast. Then, these interstitials kick out silicon atoms from the lattice sites and occupy these sites. To reach thermal equilibrium, the silicon self-interstitials formed 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 501 by the kick-out reaction must diffuse to the surface of the sample or any other sink for self-interstitials within the bulk of the sample (e.g., stacking faults or disloca- tions). The limiting factor in this mechanism is the diffusion of the silicon self- interstitials because the interstitial impurity diffusion is, in general, much faster. This leads to a well-known U-shaped proﬁle with an increase of substitutional atom concentration near the surfaces. Indeed, because the kick-out reaction is reversible, the rate of transition to the lattice site depends on the efﬁciency of sinks for the self-interstitial. The surface is a rather efﬁcient sink; therefore, the substitutional solubility value is reached at the surface much faster than in the bulk. In dislocated Si, the number of bulk sinks for self-interstitials increases with dislocation density, which leads to an increase in substitutional impurity concentration. As experimentally shown by Yakimov et al. (1995), in crystals with a moderate dislocation density, the bulk substitutional concentration increases as ND 0.5, where ND is the dislocation density (Fig. 1), which well corresponds with theory pre- dictions. However, the coefﬁcient in this relationship was found to be a few times smaller than theoretically predicted. This was explained by the presence of obstacles on dislocations, preventing their climb, and allows a portion of dislocations to be estimated, which can climb due to absorption of self-interstitials generated by the kick-out reaction. For highly dislocated Si, when the sink concentration is high enough for the self- interstitial equilibrium concentration to be established very fast everywhere, the effective diffusion coefﬁcient is independent of Ns and can be expressed as follows: Deff ¼ Neq i Di= Neq i þ Neq s   (4) Here, N eq i and Di are the impurity interstitial equilibrium concentration and diffusivity, respectively. Fig. 1 Dependence of substitutional gold concentration after diffusion at 950 C on dislocation density 502 E. B. Yakimov Typical examples of metal impurities diffusing in Si via the interstitial- substitutional exchange mechanisms are Au, Pt, and Zn. In crystals with immobile vacancy-type defects, such impurities can be trapped by these defects and occupy the substitutional positions (dissociative diffusion mechanism). This effect can be used for the study of neutral vacancy-type defects; for example, in the case of gold, the concentration of substitutional gold Aus can be easily measured by deep-level transient spectroscopy (DLTS). If the Aui species is trapped by vacancy-type defects, it cannot move deeper until all traps are fulﬁlled. Thus, the Aus depth proﬁle will have the form of a step, where the height is equal to the vacancy defect concentration and the penetration depth increases with diffusion temperature and duration. This penetration depth x0 can be expressed as follows: x0 ¼ ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ DAui Auisurf Nt t r (5) Here, DAui is the Aui diffusivity, Auisurf is its concentration at the surface, and Nt is the trap concentration. As an example, the results of nitrogen-vacancy complex investigations are demonstrated in Figs. 2, 3, and 4. First, it is shown that the introduction of nitrogen during the crystal growth can essentially increase the gold concentration introduced during diffusion at 700 C. In Fig. 2, Aus distribution measured by DLTS as a function of the radius from the wafer center is shown for FZ Si undoped and doped with nitrogen. In FZ Si doped with nitrogen, the gold concentration is approximately two orders of magnitude higher than in the undoped one, which is usually explained by the formation of nitrogen-vacancy complexes and interstitial gold trapping in these complexes. As can be seen from Figs. 3 and 4, the gold depth proﬁle has the form of a step. The gold penetration depth increases with diffusion temperature and duration in accordance with Eq. 5. However, the Aus concentration is independent of these parameters, which allows the determination of trap concentration. These measurements can be considered as an example of the application of a combination Fig. 2 Aus distribution in ﬂoating zone (FZ) Si with and without nitrogen after gold diffusion at 700 C for 1 h as a function of a distance from the wafer center 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 503 of gold diffusion and highly sensitive electrical methods, such as DLTS, to study the distribution of neutral defects. It should be taken into account that, similar to the case of solubility, the diffusivity of metals can depend on their charge. Thus, at low temperatures, interstitially dissolved atoms may exist in a few charge states characterized potentially by different diffusion coefﬁcients. At higher temperatures, a steady state between different charge states is established very rapidly and the diffusion can be charac- terized by some effective diffusion coefﬁcient. At low temperatures, it may not be the case and can be a reason for the deviation of diffusion coefﬁcients measured at low temperatures from those extrapolated at high-temperature measurements. Iron in Si, which exists as neutral or positively charged interstitial species, is an example of such behavior. It has different migration barriers for the interstitials in the different Fig. 4 Depth distribution of Aus after diffusion at 730 C for 10 and 40 min Fig. 3 Depth distribution of Aus after diffusion at different temperatures 504 E. B. Yakimov charge states  that is, 0.800.84 eV for the neutral and 0.680.69 eV for the positively charged species (Heiser and Mesli 1992; Takahashi et al. 1992). A similar dependence may take place for Cu, for which the diffusion coefﬁcients at room temperature calculated using the parameters presented in Table 2 is 1.27  109 cm2/s, whereas the experimentally obtained value is 1  107 cm2/s (Zundel et al. 1988). However, it is widely believed that all Cu interstitials are positively charged at all temperatures, therefore other reasons for the discrepancy can exist. One of the reasons for increasing the effective diffusion coefﬁcient could be the existence of an internal electric ﬁeld, which can be screened at high temperatures (Mesli et al. 1994). Furthermore, the impurity under study may interact with other impurities or with intrinsic point defects forming mobile complexes. The diffusivity of such complexes can increase in comparison with that of the impurity itself. On the contrary, if the impurity is trapped by some defect with rather low binding energy, it cannot immobilize the impurity; however, such trapping can essentially decrease the effec- tive diffusivity. It could be especially important in highly doped Si because many of the transition metals effectively interact with shallow donors and acceptors. Electrical Properties of Transition Metals in Si The electrical properties of transition metals have been discussed in many studies. Data concerning the main properties have been collected, for example, in Graff (2000) and Claeys and Simoen (2018). This section brieﬂy discusses the properties of a few metals that are important in photovoltaic technology. Iron Iron is perhaps the best-studied metal impurity in Si because it is the most prominent contaminant in silicon processing and one of the most prominent metallic impurities in solar-grade Si. In addition, as seen in Fig. 12, the iron effect on the diffusion length in Si is rather strong. Substitutional iron is unstable in Si; therefore, it can be presented as interstitial atoms Fei, complexes with other point defects or precipitates. Fei is a moderately fast-diffusing metal; therefore, it can be easily quenched at interstitial sites. However, because the interstitial iron concentration after quenching is higher than the solubility limit at room temperature, this state is non-equilibrium; iron tends to turn into a lower energy state, which in p-Si is the formation of Fe pairs with acceptors, such as the formation of an FeB pair. Depending on the boron concentration, it takes from a few hours to a day in low-doped Si. In addition, Fe can form pairs with other impurities, such as with gold. Interstitial iron has one donor level in the lower half of the silicon bandgap EFe = Ev + 0.39 eV; however, its activation energy determined from an Arrhenius plot is equal to 0.43 eV due to temperature dependence of capture cross-section. FeB pairs have two energy levels: a donor level at Et = Ev + 0.09 eVand an acceptor level 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 505 at Et = Ec  0.29 eV. The concentration of both defects can be measured by DLTS (Fig. 5). The binding energy of an FeB pair is rather low (0.6 eV); therefore, it can be easily destroyed by intensive illumination or thermal treatment at approximately 200 C. The relative amount of Fei that can be obtained after such annealing, calculated for three temperatures, is presented in Fig. 6. After storage at room temperature, FeB pairs form again; their concentration is practically equal to that of Fei (see Fig. 5). This procedure is reversible and can be repeated several times because the iron precipitation rate at such temperatures is rather low. It should be also noted that the amount of Fei released due to annealing, as seen in Fig. 6, decreases with boron concentration and increases with annealing temperature. Therefore, in highly doped Si, this procedure needs a higher temperature that can stimulate iron precipitation, or the dependences presented in Fig. 6 should be used to correct the Fe concentration values. As mentioned previously, the concentration of iron in Fei and FeB states can be measured by DLTS. However, for the nondestructive estimation of iron Fig. 5 DLTS peaks corresponding to the FeB pair and Fei in p-Si after dissociation of FeB pairs (blue line) and subsequent storage at room temperature (magenta line) Fig. 6 A steady portion of released Fei concentration calculated for three annealing temperatures as a function of boron concentration 506 E. B. Yakimov concentration or for iron distribution mapping, a procedure based on the reversible formation and destruction of FeB pairs and measurements of lifetime τ or diffusion length L = (Dτ)0.5, where D is the excess carrier diffusivity, is widely used. At a low excitation level, the FeB effect on the excess carrier lifetime is smaller than that of Fei. A comparison of τ or L values, measured when FeB pairs are formed and when they are totally destroyed, allows one to determine the concentration of non- precipitated Fe. It can be calculated as follows: Fe ½  ¼ K 1 τFei  1 τFeB   (6) For a low excitation level Δp/p  1 and a boron concentration of 1015 cm3, K = 2  106 cm3/s. If lifetime distribution is mapped by microwave photocon- ductivity or photoluminescence method, the Fe lateral distribution over the wafer can be obtained using this expression. An example of such measurements is presented in Fig. 7. It should be mentioned that the calculated concentration of electrically active Fe in this sample does not exceed 1011 cm3. Lifetime τ in Si at room temperature is mainly determined by defect-assisted recombination, described by the Shoсkley-Read-Hall expression (Shockley and Read 1952; Hall 1952): τ ¼ cn n0 þ Δn þ n1 ð Þ þ cp p0 þ Δp þ p1 ð Þ p0 þ Δp þ n0 ð ÞcncpNt , (7) Here, p0 and n0 are the equilibrium hole and electron concentrations; cn = veσe and cp = vpσp are the electron and hole capture coefﬁcients, index e or p pertains to electrons and holes, respectively; ve and vp are the electron and hole thermal velocities; σe and σp are the electron and hole capture cross-sections; Δn and Δp are the excess carrier concentrations (usually Δn = Δp can be assumed); and n1 and p1 are equal to the equilibrium electron and hole concentrations when the Fermi level 35 a b 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 µs 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 µs Fig. 7 Lifetime maps obtained by microwave photoconductivity on mc-Si (a) after annealing at 210 C for 10 min and quenching and (b) after storage at room temperature. Image size is 1  1 cm2 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 507 coincides with the defect level. If the defect has two or more energy levels inside the bandgap, the expression for lifetime is more complex. For two-level defects, it was derived by Choo (1970). In this case the impurity has three charge states Ns1, Ns, and Ns+1. The condition N = Ns1 + Ns + Ns+1, where N is the total impurity concentration, should be fulﬁlled and lifetime can be calculated as follows: 1=τ ¼ N s1 þ Ns τ1 þ N sþ1 þ N s τ2 1 τ1 ¼ p0 þ Δp þ n0 ½ cn1cp1= cn1 n0 þ Δn þ n1 ð Þ þ cp1 p0 þ Δp þ p1 ð Þ   1 τ2 ¼ p0 þ Δp þ n0 ½ cn2cp2= cn2 n0 þ Δn þ n2 ð Þ þ cp2 p0 þ Δp þ p2 ð Þ   , (8) Here, cni, cpi, ni and pi have the same sense as in Eq. 7 for i = 1 and 2 (1 and 2 correspond to the ﬁrst and second energy levels, respectively). For the low excitation conditions values of Ns1, Ns and Ns+1 are mainly determined by the Fermi level position and can be easily calculated. If the excitation level is not low enough, they should be calculated using Δn and the electron and hole capture coefﬁcients for both levels. As follows from Eqs. 7 and 8, τ depends on excitation level via Δp/p0; therefore, in a common case, K in Eq. 6 depends on both boron concentration and excitation level. The calculated dependences of lifetime on the excitation level using the capture coefﬁcients and energy levels for Fei and FeB presented in Table 3 are shown in Fig. 8. In mc-Si, the boron concentration is usually about 1016 cm3 or even higher. At such boron concentrations for a low excitation level, K rises but only by 4%. With an increase of illumination intensity and/or increase of boron concen- tration, the K value increases. It is seen that it can even change a sign, and the Δp value corresponding to the sign inversion point depends on the boron concentration. At an excitation level close to the inversion point, the Fe concentration calculated using Eq. 6 can be strongly underestimated. This is necessary to consider, especially when lifetime mapping is carried out; to obtain the appropriated lateral resolution, it is necessary to increase the local excitation level, which usually does not allow the low excitation conditions to be reached. During cooling from high temperatures, iron precipitates preferentially via a heterogeneous nucleation mechanism; therefore, lattice defects or other impurity pre- cipitates are needed as nuclei for the precipitation. Usually, the iron precipitates have a form of rod-like inclusions of the α-FeSi2 or of β-FeSi2 phase. With high enough diffusivity, iron can precipitate even at rather low temperatures. As an example, the Table 3 The capture coefﬁcients for Fei and FeB obtained from the lifetime dependences on excitation level (Palais et al. 2002) Energy level, eV cp, 107 cm3/s cn, 107 cm3/s Fei Ev + 0.39 0.15 5.5 FeB Ev + 0.09 4.4 7 FeB Ec  0.29 25 0.6 508 E. B. Yakimov dependence of Fei concentration measured by DLTS after annealing at 225 C as a function of annealing duration is shown in Fig. 9. This dependence shows that iron precipitates even at this temperature and allows the estimation of precipitation rate. Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) studies have shown that clustering of Fe starts with the formation of small particles containing two or four Fe atoms, which then dissociate to form larger clusters or precipitates. DLTS investigations showed that Fe precipitates introduced energy levels in the gap, which are usually ascribed to the interface states between the silicide and the silicon matrix. However, the effect of precipitates on the excess carrier lifetime is weaker than that of Fei. Nickel Besides iron, nickel is one of the main impurities in Si-based device production. At elevated temperatures, nickel forms a sequence of silicides, showing increasing silicon content with increasing formation temperatures. The high-temperature Ni Fig. 9 Decrease of Fei concentration during annealing by 225 C Fig. 8 Calculated lifetime dependence of the excitation level for FeB pairs and Fei for the samples with different dopant concentrations. Fe concentration is 1  1012 cm3 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 509 silicide modiﬁcation NiSi2 has cubic lattice symmetry with almost-equal lattice parameters to silicon, which promotes the epitaxial growth of NiSi2 precipitates via a homogeneous nucleation. Nickel diffuses mainly via interstitial sites; however, interstitial Ni is neutral and does not affect the electrical properties. Only substitu- tional nickel or its complexes with other defects can be detected by electrical methods. DLTS measurements reveal three main energy levels in silicon intention- ally contaminated with Ni at Ec  0.07 eV, Ec  0.45 eV, and Ev + 0.16 eV, which are usually assigned to the double-acceptor, single-acceptor, and single-donor states of substitutional nickel, respectively. However, as argued by Schefﬂer et al. (2014a), some of them can belong to other Ni-related defects. It should be noted that such energy levels allow substitutional nickel to compensate the shallow dopants in both n- and p-Si. In addition, some other Ni-related defects were observed in Si. For example, as shown by Yarykin and Weber (2016), a center with the energy level at Ec  0.37 eV can be introduced as a result of nickel interaction with radiation- induced vacancy-oxygen centers. At room temperature, it can be expected that interstitial nickel is not present in Si wafers in a steady state due to very high diffusivity, which allows its fast outdiffusion to the surfaces, precipitation, or reaction with other defects. As a rule, a portion of electrically active Ni-based defects is rather low; thus, in spite of high substitutional nickel recombination activity, it can be expected that nickel-related defects do not essentially affect the solar cell performance. However, it seems that NiSi2 precipi- tates demonstrate rather high electrical activity, as can be revealed by DLTS and electron beam-induced current (EBIC) methods. As shown by Kittler et al. (1991) in Si with high density of NiSi2 precipitates (Nprec), the effective diffusion length can be described as Leff = 0.7  Nprec 1/3. Therefore, as will be shown in next section, in mc-Si for solar cells, Nprec should not exceed 105106 cm3. Copper The third main impurity in Si device production besides iron and nickel is copper. Copper can be found in high concentrations in wafers after processing and on surfaces and can be considered as the most common contaminant of Si. Due to its electronegativity, copper is easily replated on clean wafer surfaces during any wet chemical process such as cleaning, etching, polishing, etc. Similar to nickel, copper exhibits high interstitional solubility and diffusivity, which have the highest values of all transition metals. Thus, although interstitial copper can be revealed by the transient ion drift technique in high enough concentrations up to 1015 cm3 after high-temperature diffusion and subsequent quenching, such a concentration cannot be preserved for a long time. In addition, interstitial copper is always positively charged, implying a shallow donor level in the upper half of the bandgap; therefore it can be expected that, as in the case of other shallow-level defects, its effect on the excess carrier recombination rate is negligible. If copper is introduced during growth or high-temperature diffusion, it occupies substitutional sites, and this state is rather stable. DLTS measurements reveal three 510 E. B. Yakimov main energy levels ascribing to the substitutional copper in silicon at Ec  0.17 eV, Ev + 0.430 eV, and Ev + 0.225 eV, which were usually assigned to the double- acceptor, single-acceptor and single-donor states. In addition, copper can form complexes with other impurities and/or intrinsic point defects. One of them is the well-known copper-related center, which has a donor level at Ev + 0.1 eV and produces intense zero-phonon emission at 1.014 eV. High-resolution photo- luminescence studies on isotopically pure Si showed that this defect includes four copper atoms. The ﬁrst-principles calculations proposed that the complex is composed of a substitutional copper core surrounded by three interstitial Cu interstitial. Usually, only a fraction of approximately 0.1% of total copper atoms forms electrically active point defects and complexes, giving rise to deep levels in the bandgap. Thus, despite the rather high copper concentration usually presented in mc-Si, it can be expected that the effect of Cu or Cu-related point defects on the recombination lifetime is not so detrimental. The harmful copper effect could arise mainly from the electrically active precipitates and complexes with other crystal imperfections, which can be easily formed due to high interstitial copper diffusivity. The stable copper silicide consists of a metal-rich silicide Cu3Si, which does not ﬁt the lattice parameter of the silicon. Its lattice parameter is larger than that of Si, which means that compressive stress is built up during precipitation; this can be relaxed by the emission of one interstitial for every two precipitated Cu atoms. This leads to a high barrier for the homogeneous nucleation of Cu precipitates, favoring the hetero- geneous nucleation of large precipitate colonies near extended defects. In addition, shear stress near copper precipitates leads to a generation of new dislocations, which in turn can promote the formation of new precipitates. It could be a mechanism of formation of dislocation-precipitate colonies, which are often observed by the transmission electron microscopy in copper-contaminated Si samples. The formation of such colonies could be a reason for a strong copper effect on the extended defect recombination properties. Similar to iron and nickel, Cu precipitates introduced energy levels in the gap demonstrating characteristic features of interface states. Chromium Chromium is an impurity that is frequently detected in mc-Si. It is one of the most abundant and also most detrimental defects in silicon. Chromium is an essential constituent of most of the preferential-etch solutions for revealing crystal defects in samples after processing. Although replating of chromium on Si is not expected because of the rather low electronegativity, an adsorption of chromium on the Si surface sometimes is detected. Chromium has intermediate diffusivity and can occupy both interstitial and substitutional positions in the Si lattice. Chromium can easy form chromium oxides in an atmosphere containing oxygen, which can avoid its diffusion into Si. After diffusion and fast cooling the sample to room temperature, chromium remains dissolved on interstitial sites, forming metastable electrically active 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 511 defects with a donor level at Ec  0.23 eV. Interstitial chromium forms donor-acceptor pairs with shallow acceptors. In boron-doped silicon with a high dopant concentration, almost all electrical active chromium forms CrB pairs. The CrB pair has a donor level at Ev + 0.28 eV. Under illumination with sufﬁcient energy, these pairs can be dissociated in Cri and B; however, this process is reversible, and after some time all CrB pairs are associated again. As in the case of iron, a dissociation of CrB pairs and lifetime measurements with chromium in the interstitial and CrB pair states can be used for Cr identiﬁcation in Si. As shown in Fig. 12, Cri and CrB pairs strongly affect the excess carrier lifetime in Si. Chromium precipitation can start during annealing at temperatures as low as 170 C, but CrSi2 precipitates exhibit a strongly reduced recombination activity compared to Cri. Cobalt Cobalt is frequently detected in mc-Si, although its concentration is much lower than that of Fe, Ni, or Cu. It is the lightest of the fast-diffusing transition metals and exhibits a medium solubility. Due to high diffusivity, interstitial cobalt is not expected at room temperature. In accordance with one study (Kolkovsky et al. 2014), substitutional Co has an acceptor level at Ec  0.39 eV. An acceptor level at Ev + 0.46 eV was ascribed to the CoiBs pair. No energy levels were obtained for interstitial Co. Theoretical calculations have conﬁrmed that all centers containing one cobalt atom have only one acceptor level and no donor level. Interstitial Co atoms can react with substitutional ones to form electrically inactive pairs. Similar to Ni, cobalt forms silicides, which exhibit a decreasing metal content with increasing temperatures. The high-temperature modiﬁcation is CoSi2. It was shown that the precipitates have a form of small platelets, which consist of monocrystalline CoSi2, epitaxially grown parallel to the silicon {111} planes in a twin conﬁguration. Titanium Titanium concentrations in state-of-the-art mc-Si are too low to essentially affect the electrical properties. However, in mc-Si ingot grown from reﬁned metallurgical silicon, titanium concentrations were found to exceed 1015 cm3 (Peshcherova et al. 2015). Interstitial titanium is electrically active. Two deep energy levels were ascribed to titanium on the interstitial position: the single-donor state at Ec  0.09 eV and the double-donor state Ev + 0.25 eV. The energy level at Ec  0.28 eV was ascribed to the single acceptor state of substitutional titanium. Ti is a rather strong recombination center, especially in p-type Si. Its diffusivity is rather low; therefore, its precipitation requires a long annealing duration. Titanium precipitates mainly via a heterogeneous nucleation mechanism. Therefore, some nuclei, such as extended defects, are required for precipitation. 512 E. B. Yakimov Gold In state-of-the-art mc-Si, gold concentrations are usually much lower than those of iron, copper, and nickel. However, gold is well known to replate on uncoated wafers in every solution containing trace contaminations of gold because of its high electroneg- ativity compared to that of silicon, which could be a source of contamination. It should be also taken into account that, contrary to nickel and copper, practically all gold atoms in Si predominantly occupy the substitutional sites, where they are electrically active and can strongly affect the excess carrier recombination rate. Gold is one of the most investigated metal impurities in silicon. It can very quickly diffuse into Si on interstitial sites, even at rather low temperatures (600 C). However, the solubility of interstitial gold is low, usually a few orders of magnitude lower than that for substi- tutional gold. Therefore, the gold concentration at interstitial positions rather quickly reach the steady value; then, the overall gold concentration increases via occupation of the substitutional sites by kicking out silicon atoms. Thus, it demonstrates the kick-out diffusion mechanism, which was previously discussed in more detail. Substitutional gold is a stable state because its diffusivity is negligible. Moving it into a mobile interstitial state requires self-interstitials. On the substitutional lattice site, it has two deep energy levels: an acceptor state in the upper half of bandgap at Ec  0.56 eVand a donor state in the lower half at Ev + 0.34 eV. In addition, gold can form electrically active complexes with different metals such as Cr, Mn, Fe, Ni, Cu, and V. The energy levels ascribed to these pairs are listed in Table 4. These pairs can be of technological importance because they form strong recombination centers, and their effect on excess carrier lifetime can even exceed that of substitutional gold. Silver Silver is not a common contaminant in Si. However, it is widely used as a contact in solar cell production. Moreover, these contacts are usually ﬁred at high enough temperatures exceeding 600 C; therefore, contamination with silver cannot be totally excluded. Silver can contaminate Si by replating from chemical solutions that contain silver as an impurity. In addition, Ag can penetrate easily through passivating oxide layers on devices under operating conditions, which can result in a degradation of the solar cell parameters. Silver does not form stable silicides at elevated temperatures, but it has a eutectic point at 840 C. It diffuses rather quickly via interstitial mechanisms; however, contrary to gold, it needs defect assistance to occupy the substitutional sitesthat is, it diffuses via the dissociative mechanism. After implantation, only approximately 30% of the Ag is in the substitutional position; that increases to 80% after a 200300 C anneal step. Substitutional silver Table 4 Energy levels of Au pairs with some transition metals AuFe AuNi AuCu AuCr AuMn AuV E, eV Ev + 0.43 (d) Ev + 0.35 Ev + 0.32 Ev + 0.35 (d) Ev + 0.57 (d) Ev + 0.42 (d) Ec  0.35 (a) Ev + 0.48 Ev + 0.42 Ec  0.24 (a) Ec  0.20 (a) 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 513 has two deep levels: an acceptor at Ec  0.55 eVand a donor level at Ev + 0.37 eV. If samples were slowly cooled after growth, an energy level at Ec  0.3 eV would be revealed by the DLTS, which can be ascribed to a pair of substitutional-interstitial silver. Zinc Zinc is frequently found in mc-Si (Peshcherova et al. 2015; Stokkan et al. 2017); therefore, its properties in Si should be also discussed. Zn is one of the impurities it also diffuses in Si via a kick-out mechanism. Therefore, its effective diffusion coefﬁcient is concentration dependent. However, zinc diffusivity is lower than that of gold and platinum at all temperatures. Usually, zinc is not considered to be a detrimental impurity in device fabrication because it easily evaporates from the surface during thermal treatment. Substitutional zinc has two energy levels in the bandgap: a double acceptor at Ec  0.53 eV and an acceptor at Ev + 0.32 eV. Due to the acceptor nature of substitutional Zn, it can react with other transition metals, such as Cr and Fe, to form electrically active acceptor-donor pairs. Manganese Manganese, like titanium, has only been found in signiﬁcant concentrations in mc-Si ingot grown from reﬁned metallurgical silicon. At room temperature, Mn can exist both in interstitial Mni and substitutional Mns sites. It is generally accepted that Mni has four charge states (Mn, Mn0, Mn+ and Mn++), resulting in three energy levels: an acceptor level at Ec  0.12 eV, a single-donor level at Ec  0.43 eVand a double- donor level at Ev + 0.27 eV. Two energy levels are ascribed to substitutional Mns: a donor level at Ev + 0.34 eV and an acceptor level at Ec  0.43 eV. Like iron and chromium, interstitial manganese forms various pairs with shallow acceptors and other metals, such as Zn, Sn, and Au. For example, an MnB pair is a donor with an energy level at Ec  0.55 eV. The interstitial Mn can cluster to form an Mn4 complex with a donor level at Ec  0.28 eV. Like most of the other transition metals, manganese forms silicides at elevated temperatures; the high-temperature modiﬁcation is MnSi2. Rather little is known about the precipitation behavior of manganese. In particular, it is not exactly known yet whether the Mn4 complex is a ﬁrst step for a homogeneous nucleation. Effect of Metals on Solar Cell Efficiency The efﬁciency of solar cells is determined by the maximum power Pmax = Vm  Im = FF  Voc  Isc, where Vm and Im are the voltage and current values corresponding to the maximum power, respectively; Isc and Voc are the short- 514 E. B. Yakimov circuit current and open circuit voltage, respectively; and FF is the ﬁlling factor. Voc can be calculated as follows: V oc ¼ nkT ln Iph=I0   þ 1   (9) Here, n is the ideality factor, I0 is the saturation current, and Iph is the photocurrent. As follows from Eq. 9, the open-circuit voltage depends logarithmically on the relationship between the photocurrent and the leakage current. Therefore, it can be believed that its dependence on impurity content is not too strong due to rather high illumination intensity under sun exposure. The main effect of metals on the Voc values can be determined by shunt formation. These shunts can locally reduce the built-in potential barrier of a pn junction, forming conducting paths. In this case, the leakage current can exceed the theoretical value by many orders of magnitude. This effect is practically impossible to simulate; however, it should be noted that even cells containing shunts and demonstrating large dark reverse currents exceeding 10 μA/cm2 often have open-circuit voltage values exceeding 500600 mV. This can be explained by the assumption that illumination decreases potential barriers and thus suppresses the shunt effect. FF depends on both Isc and Voc. However, it can be shown that it is mainly determined by the Voc value. Indeed, from a condition at maximum power d(Im  Vm) = 0, it follows that dIm dV m ¼  Im V m (10) Taking into account that Im ¼ I0 exp eV m nkT    1  Iph  I0 exp eV m nkT    1  Isc (11) the following can be obtained: dIm dV m ¼ I0 e nkT exp eV m nkT   ¼  Im V m V m ¼  Im I0 e nkT exp eV m nkT   ¼ nkT e ½exp eV m nkT   exp eV oc nkT   exp eV m nkT   ¼ nkT e exp e V oc V m ð Þ nkT 1 (12) 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 515 Thus, V m ¼ V oc  nkT e ln 1 þ eV m nkT    V oc  nkT e ln 1 þ eV oc nkT   (13) and Im Isc ¼ exp eV m nkT    1  exp eV oc nkT    1 exp eV oc nkT    1 ¼  eV oc nkT exp eV oc nkT   exp eV oc nkT    1 1 þ eV oc nkT     eV oc nkT 1 þ eV oc nkT   FF ¼  V mIm V ocIsc  e nkT V oc  ln 1 þ eV oc nkT   1 þ eV oc nkT   (14) Thus, all factors decreasing Voc lead also to FF decrease. For the production of highly efﬁcient solar cells, the effect of defects on the open-circuit voltage and the ﬁlling factor should therefore be taken into account. However, the main inﬂuence of metal impurities on solar cell performance is caused by their effect on the collection efﬁciency  that is, on the portion of excess carriers that reach the depletion region of pn junction and give rise to the photocurrent. The short-circuit current simply equals the collection efﬁciency multiplied by a number of light-induced excess carriers. In turn, the collection efﬁciency can be calculated as a convolution of generation function, which is proportional to exp(αz) where α is the Si absorption coefﬁcient depending on wavelength; and the collection probability ψ(z,W,L), which can be obtained as a solution of homogeneous diffusion equation (Donolato 1985). In one-dimensional case, ψ(z,W,L) can be described as follows: ψ z,W,L ð Þ ¼ exp z=L ð Þ þ D LS  1 D LS þ 1 exp z  2d ð Þ=L ð Þ exp W=L ð Þ þ D LS  1 D LS þ 1 exp W  2d ð Þ=L ð Þ , (15) 516 E. B. Yakimov Here, W is the pn junction depletion region, d is the cell thickness, and S is the backside surface recombination velocity. If S can be neglected, Eq. 15 can be simpliﬁed as follows: ψ z,W,L ð Þ ¼ exp z=L ð Þ þ exp z  2d ð Þ=L ð Þ exp W=L ð Þ þ exp W  2d ð Þ=L ð Þ (16a) On the contrary, for very high S that can take place at the backside contact, ψ(z,W,L) can be described as follows: ψ z,W,L ð Þ ¼ exp z=L ð Þ  exp z  2d ð Þ=L ð Þ exp W=L ð Þ  exp W  2d ð Þ=L ð Þ (16b) For simplicity, let us assume that a 200-μm-thick cell consists of p-Si with 1-μm- thick n+-Si top layer, S = 0 and only half of the carriers generated in the top n+-layer are collected by the pn junction. The normalized collection efﬁciency as a function of L calculated under such assumptions for illumination with different wavelengths is shown in Fig. 10. It can be seen that for a diffusion length larger than 100 μm, the collection efﬁciency is practically saturated; therefore, the diffusion length in highly efﬁcient solar cells should be larger than 100 μm or the lifetime should be larger than 3 μs. Of course, with a further diffusion length increase, the collection efﬁciency will also increase; however, as seen in Fig. 10, for L 100 μm, this increase is not as essential as at smaller L values. As can be seen in Fig. 7, in typical mc-Si wafers, τ varies in the range from a few to 50 μs, which corresponds to a diffusion length range from 100 to approximately 400 μm. In solar cells, it can be even larger due to recombination center gettering in the technology process. As seen in Fig. 11, in 280-μm-thick solar cells, backside contact strips can be revealed by the light beam induced method (LBIC) as a dark region. Our estimations show that the visible LBIC contrast of these strips can be seen only at diffusion length values exceeding 200250 μm. Fig. 10 The normalized collection efﬁciency as a function of L calculated for different wavelength values shown in nm 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 517 The diffusion length is mainly determined by the lifetime because a dependence of excess carrier diffusivity on impurity content is rather weak. As follows from Eqs. 7 and 8, the lifetime depends on the excitation level, mainly via Δn. Solar cells based on crystalline silicon can deliver a maximum possible current density of 46 mA/cm2 under an AM1.5 spectrum. This gives for the excess carrier generation rate G a value of 2.9  1017 cm3/s. If τ = 3 μs is assumed Δn  8.7  1011 cm3. Even if τ increases up to 1 ms, the condition Δn  p0 is fulﬁlled in most cases for mc-Si and the low excitation conditions are realized. However, for solar cells based on monocrystalline Si, this may be not the case due to the higher lifetimes and lower dopant concentration values. Shallow donors in n-type semiconductors are positively charged and shallow acceptors in p-type semiconductors are negatively charged. Therefore, they should repel minority carriers, which strongly decreases the effective capture cross-section. For this reason, defects with shallow levels can affect the carrier concentration and mobility, but their effect on the excess carrier lifetime usually can be neglected. Thus, only the effects of defects with deep energy levels would be considered. To calculate τ dependence on the concentration of such defects, the corresponding energy level and capture coefﬁcients should be known. For transition metals, they can be found in the literature (e.g., Graff 2000; Claeys and Simoen 2018). The diffusion length dependences on metal concentrations calculated for some metal impurities in p-type Si are shown in Fig. 12. Such dependences allow one to estimate the limiting concentrations for any particular impurity to achieve a high performance of solar cells. It should be stressed that the data presented in Fig. 12 were calculated for the concentrations of electrically active species, which can be much lower than the overall impurity concentration. As seen in Fig. 12, the largest effect on the diffusion length and thus on the solar cell efﬁciency among the discussed metals is demon- strated by Cr and Fe. To achieve L 100 μm, their concentration in the electrically active state should be lower than 1012 cm3; as mentioned previously, the overall concentration can exceed 1014 cm3 in state-of-the-art mc-Si. However, for many Fig. 11 LBIC image of a fragment of an mc-Si solar cell obtained with wavelength of 980 nm. Dark backside contact strips are shown by white arrows 518 E. B. Yakimov transition metals, the largest portion of total impurity concentration in mc-Si is precipitated; therefore, usually only a small portion of metal impurities are in an electrically active state, and their overall effect on the diffusion length is smaller than that demonstrated in Fig. 12. The effect of transition metals on the efﬁciency of Si-based solar cells has been studied in many works. The simulations of metal effects on the efﬁciency of state-of- the art solar cells based on Cz mono-Si had shown that Cr, Co, and Fe can reduce the cell efﬁciency, even at concentrations as low as 1010 cm3 (Schmidt et al. 2013). However, this was the concentration of electrically active species, not the total impurity concentration. A few investigations dealt with measurements of efﬁciency of solar cells produced from intentionally contaminated wafers (see, e.g., Reis et al. 2009; Coletti et al. 2011). In Reis et al. (2009), mc-Si blocks were intentionally contaminated with iron and copper. Iron concentration was measured of about 1014 cm3 in the middle and up to 10171018 cm3 in the top of blocks. The copper concentration was up to 1015 cm3 in the middle and up to 10171018 cm3 in the top of blocks. In the cells produced on wafers from the middle of blocks, Voc values practically did not change in comparison with noncontaminated cells for both elements; in the cells produced on wafers from the top of blocks, the values decreased to approximately 5% and 11% for copper and iron contamination, respec- tively. The efﬁciency in the middle part basically did not change for copper and decreased from 16% to 15% for iron. On the top wafers, the efﬁciency decreased to 1011% for both impurities. The impact of intentionally introduced iron, chromium, nickel, titanium, and copper on the performance of mc-Si-based solar cells made by a 2008 state-of-the-art industrial process including P-diffusion, Al-back surface ﬁeld formation, and SiNx:H ﬁring was studied by Coletti et al. (2011). The added impurity concentration was varied up to 5  1018, 5.5  1018, 5  1018, 2.7  1017, and 2.1  1018 for iron, chromium, nickel, titanium, and copper, respectively. It was found that the efﬁciency of solar cells made on wafers from the middle of the ingot decreased from 16% to 14.5%, 14%, and 13% for the highest concentrations of Fe, Cr, and Ti, respectively. For nickel and copper, the efﬁciency in the middle of the ingot did not notably change. Fig. 12 Dependences of diffusion length in Si on metal concentrations calculated for some metal impurities. A dashed line marks a diffusion length of 100 μm 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 519 However, for all impurities, the efﬁciency decreased in the bottom and top parts of the ingot. As a result, the limiting concentrations of impurities in the molten silicon charge that resulted in a IscVoc product with approximately 2% relative degradation with respect to the uncontaminated ingot up to 90% of the ingot height was estimated. These concentrations were 2.7  1017, 2.1  1017, 3.1  1017, 3.2  1015, and 1.7  1017 for iron, chromium, nickel, titanium, and copper, respectively. Metal precipitates can be the origin of shunts or breakdown sites in mc-Si solar cells, which may have a detrimental effect on the solar cell battery performance. However, this effect strongly depends on the technology process used and on the type and properties of extended defects in the wafer. Metal Interaction with Extended Defects State-of-the-art monocrystalline Si does not generally contain extended defects, such as grain boundaries and dislocations, although dislocations can be introduced in some technology processes in highly doped layers. However, this is not the case for mc-Si, which usually contains grain boundaries (GB), dislocations, and precipitates. Therefore, the effect of these defects on the solar cell performance should be taken into account. The number and type of GBs depend on the growth conditions. GBs are usually classiﬁed in terms of special coincident site lattice relationships. The Σ-value reﬂects the periodicity of atomic arrangements at GBs, and it increases as the boundary coherence is decreased. GBs with small Σ values usually have lower energy; therefore, most boundaries between the neighboring grains are such GBs. In mc-Si ingots grown by casting, the most frequently observed grain boundaries are of the Σ3 type (usually more than 50%), followed by random, Σ9, Σ27, and small-angle (with a misorientation angle of less than 1) GBs. In Si ribbons, the portion of Σ3 GBs is even larger (Fig. 13). The dislocation density in some grains can reach 106 cm2. To estimate the effect of extended defects on the diffusion length and in turn on the short circuit current, the defect recombination strength should be known. For GBs, it is equal to the surface recombination velocity vs; for dislocations, it is equal to the line recombination velocity γd; and for precipitates, γp can be estimated as a product of surface recombination velocity at the precipitate boundary on its area. The defect recombination strength can be evaluated, for example, from measurements of the defect EBIC contrast Cmax = 1  Icd/Ic0, where Icd and Ic0 are the collected current values, measured with the focused e-beam located at the defect and far from it, respectively. The relationship between the EBIC contrast and the defect recom- bination strength can be calculated using the expressions presented in many other studies (e.g., Shabelnikova and Yakimov 2012). The results of such calculations for two values of depletion region width W are presented in Fig. 14 for a dislocation perpendicular to the surface and in Fig. 15 for GBs. For a dislocation parallel to the surface, the relationship between the EBIC contrast and γd can be described as follows (Yakimov 2002): 520 E. B. Yakimov Cmax ¼ γd 1 þ γd 2πD ln 2 z0  W ð Þ=rd ½  þ 1=2 f g  exp  z0  W ð Þ=L ½  Ð1 1 p0 0,y, z0 ð Þdy Ic0 (17) Here, z0 is the dislocation depth, rd is the radius of the dislocation defect cylinder, and Ic0 and p0(0,y,z0) are the collected current and minority carrier concentration at (0,y,z0) in the defect-free region, respectively. For precipitates, the corresponding relationship is as follows: Fig. 14 Dependences of Cmax on γd/D for a dislocation perpendicular to the surface in Si simulated for two values of W Fig. 13 EBIC and secondary electron images of an Si ribbon after wet chemical etching. All GBs shown are Σ3 twin boundaries elongated along the h112i direction. Only one GB produced a dark EBIC contrast at room temperature 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 521 Cmax ¼ γd 1 þ γd 4πD 3 2rp  exp 2 z0  W ð Þ=L ½  2 z0  W ð Þ exp  z0  W ð Þ=L ½  Ð1 1 p0 0, y, z0 ð Þdy Ic0 (18) Here, rp is the precipitate radius (Donolato 1992). In both cases, the contrast depends on the defect depth. However, the depth can be also estimated from the EBIC contrast dependence on beam energy. Most Σ3-type GBs demonstrate rather low recombination strength; only a few of them can be revealed in the EBIC mode. A typical EBIC image of an Si ribbon is presented in Fig. 13, together with the secondary electron image of the same region after selective chemical etching. Many GBs elongated along the growth direction 112 can be seen; practically all of them are Σ3 twin GBs. However, only one of the GBs shown in this fragment demonstrates a dark contrast in the EBIC mode. It can be assumed that this electrically active Σ3 GBs is an asymmetric Σ3 GBs (Tachibana et al. 2012) or it is a Σ3 GB with a zig-zag structure (Chen et al. 2009). The EBIC contrasts at room temperature for Σ9, Σ27, and R are larger than that for Σ3; however, the values usually do not exceed a few percentages in clean mc-Si. Only small angle (1) boundary contrast can exceed 5% (Chen et al. 2007). These values can be used for the evaluation of GB effects on excess carrier lifetime in nominally clean mc-Si. After intentional contamination with Fe, Cu, Ni, or other metals, the GB EBIC contrast strongly increases as a rule in the order of Σ3, Σ9, Σ27, and R. At high contamination levels, the GB contrast can reach 30%; even for the Σ3 boundary, it can reach 10%. As an example, the EBIC images of mc-Si before and after Cu diffusion at 750 C for 30 min are presented in Fig. 16. A comparison of images in the EBIC and secondary electron (SE) modes shows that only a few GBs in the initial sample demonstrated dark EBIC contrast. After Cu diffusion, Fig. 15 Dependences of Cmax on vs for a GB perpendicular to the surface in Si simulated for two values of W 522 E. B. Yakimov practically all GBs can be revealed in the EBIC mode, and their contrast essentially increases. It should be noted that this increase is not proportional to the initial contrast values. The contrast values after intentional metal contamina- tion can be considered as a limit for GB recombination activity. Estimations of vs using the dependences presented in Fig. 15 show that it does not exceed 24  103 cm/s in clean mc-Si. In highly contaminated samples, it can exceed 104 cm/s; for some boundaries, it can reach a value of 105 cm/s. These values can be used for an estimation of GB effects on the diffusion length. For dislocations, the situation is little bit more complex. It is widely accepted that clean dislocations demonstrate very low recombination activity. However, their decoration with transition metals can strongly increase their activity. Many experi- ments have shown that Fe, Ni, and Au undoubtedly increase the dislocation recom- bination strength in monocrystalline Si. As an example, the EBIC image of dislocations in plastically deformed Si after iron diffusion at 1000 C is presented in Fig. 17. The metal contamination effect is not totally understood in the case of Cu because Cu contamination has been reported to increase the dislocation recombina- tion strength in some studies, although no Cu effect or even dislocation passivation was reported in other studies. One possible explanation for such behavior consists of an assumption that the Cu effect nonmonotonically depends on its concentration. In any case, the decoration of dislocations with transition metals can increase the dislocation EBIC contrast in plastically deformed monocrystalline Si up to 2530% (Feklisova et al. 2012). As follows from Fig. 14, γd for such highly decorated dislocations can reach a value of 50100 cm2/s. In mc-Si, as seen in Fig. 13, the EBIC does not reveal any contrast related to dislocations despite rather high transition metal content. Moreover, even after intentional contamination with metal impurities, the contrast still remains very low. This is demonstrated in Figs. 18, 19, 20, and 21, where the EBIC images of mc-Si intentionally contaminated with different metals are shown. For all used metals, the GB contrast noticeably increases, whereas dislocations, which can be seen on some images due to the topography contrast of etch pits, do not produce any recombination contrast. For nominally clean mc-Si, the γd value was estimated to change in the range from 102 to 3 cm2/s (Adamczyk et al. 2018). Taking into Fig. 16 EBIC images of mc-Si before and after Cu diffusion. The SE image is shown in the left image 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 523 account that the EBIC can reveal dislocations with a contrast Cmax 1% and that the dislocation EBIC contrast is below the detectivity limit, it can be stated using the dependences from Fig. 14 that the dislocation recombination strength in mc-Si does not exceed 3 cm2/s, even after contamination with high concentrations of transition metals. Thus, it seems that the decoration of dislocations with metals in mc-Si is not as efﬁcient as that for dislocations introduced by plastic deformation in monocrys- talline Si. Indeed, the dislocation EBIC contrast in mc-Si does not noticeably increase after metal contamination just in the same condition, in which the essential increase of dislocation recombination strength was observed in mono- crystalline Si (Feklisova et al. 2012). Thus, dislocations in mc-Si are not serving as efﬁcient getters for metals. The low gettering efﬁciency of dislocations in mc-Si can be explained by an assumption that they are decorated with some impurities already after growth, but these impurities formed precipitates with rather low recombination activity. As a result, they cannot getter more impurities because of a limited ability to accommodate them, and the overall dislocation recombina- tion activity is low. As shown by Donolato (1998a), the effective diffusion length in a dislocated crystal with not very small thickness can be expressed as follows: Leff ¼ L0  2γd πD N D ð1 0 1 μ4 dk 1 þ γd πD 1  μrDK1 μrD ð Þ μrD ð Þ2 þ I1 μrD ð ÞK1 μa ð Þ μrDI1 μa ð Þ  # (19) Fig. 17 EBIC image of dislocations in plastically deformed mono-Si after Fe diffusion at 1000 C. The corresponding SE image after chemical etching is also shown (right image), in which the dislocation etch pits are well seen 524 E. B. Yakimov Here, L0 is the excess carrier diffusion length in the dislocation-free region, ND is the dislocation density, μ = (k2 + 1/L0 2)0.5, rD is the dislocation defect radius, and K1 and I1 are the modiﬁed Bessel functions of order one. Values of Leff calculated for a few γd values using Eq. 19 with L0 = 100 μm and rD = 50 nm as a function of dislocation density are presented in Fig. 22. It can be seen that at γd of the order of 3 cm2/s dislocations starts to affect the Leff value at densities exceeding 104 cm2; at Fig. 18 EBIC images of Cu contaminated mc-Si. The corresponding SE image after chemical etching is also shown, in which the dislocation etch pits are well seen Fig. 19 EBIC image of Ni-contaminated mc-Si. Dislocations are revealed as bright points due to topography contrast 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 525 ND equal to 104 and 105 cm2, Leff decreases to 96 and 75 μm, respectively. Thus, in solar cells based on nominally clean mc-Si, only dislocations with a density of 105 cm2 or higher can affect the cell parameters. If γd increases up to 100 cm2/s, which is the case for metal-contaminated dislocations in plastically deformed mono- crystalline Si, even dislocations at a density of 104 cm2 lead to an approximate 20% decrease in the effective diffusion length. If the effective diffusion length in polycrystalline materials is determined by the recombination on GBs, their effect can be estimated as follows (Donolato 1998b): 1=L2 eff ¼ 1=L2 0 þ 2vs=aD (20) Fig. 20 EBIC image of Fe-contaminated mc-Si Fig. 21 EBIC image of Au-contaminated mc-Si 526 E. B. Yakimov for vsa/D  4 and 1=L2 eff ¼ 1=L2 0 þ 2π2=a2 (21) for vsa/D  4, where a is the average grain size (the average distance between GBs). As shown previously, even in nominally clean mc-Si, vs can be estimated as 24  103 cm/s for small-angle GBs. For most Σ3 boundaries, vs is much smaller than 103 cm/s. For such vs values, the condition vsa/D  4 is fulﬁlled at an average grain size a  400 μmthat is, almost always, especially taking into account that the vs values will be lower than 2  103 cm/s for other types of GBs, as follows from the lower EBIC contrast. After metal contamination, vs can increase up to 105 cm/s. Eq. 21 should be used for the estimations. The Leff(a) dependences calculated using Eqs. 20 and 21 are presented in Fig. 23. The dependence calculated for vs = 105 cm/s can be considered as limit one because it seems that, even in heavily contaminated Fig. 22 Dependences of Leff on dislocation density ND calculated using Eq. (19) for a few values of γd. The calculations were carried out with L0 = 100 μm and rD = 50 nm Fig. 23 Dependences of Leff on average grain size a calculated using Eqs. (20) and (21) for a few values of vs. The calculations were carried out with L0 = 100 μm 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 527 samples, vs does not exceed this value. For Σ3 boundaries, the most frequently observed in mc-Si, vs does not exceed 104cm/s even after hard metal contamination. Thus, as seen in Fig. 23, the effect of Σ3 boundaries on the diffusion length can be neglected for a 300 μm. In nominally clean mc-Si, the effect is even smaller. This statement can be conﬁrmed experimentally; for example, in the sample shown in Fig. 13, the effective diffusion length exceeds 50 μm despite a rather high dislocation density (about 106 cm2) and an average distance between twin boundaries of approximately 10 μm. For precipitates, the excess carrier lifetime can be estimated as follows: τ ¼ 4πN pr2 p 1 (22) Here, Np and rp are the precipitate density and radius, respectively. The effective diffusion length can then be estimated as Leff = (Dτ)0.5. Metal Impurities Gettering Gettering procedures have been used since the early days of silicon microelectronics. The aim of these procedures is to improve device performance by removing harmful metal impurities from the active device region and conﬁne them to pre-designed areas where they are unimportant for the functionality of the respective device. Many different techniques have been developed in Si microelectronics, such as backside damage, backside deposition of polycrystalline Si layers or highly doped glasses, and high-temperature annealing in chlorine-, HCl-, trichloroethane-, or trichloroethylene-containing atmospheres. In general, any gettering procedure should include the following: (a) dissolution of metal precipitates or other procedures to transform them to mobile species, (b) diffusion of these mobile species to the gettering sites, and (c) trapping of the metals at the gettering sites into stable enough complexes. In microelectronics, it is necessary to decrease the thermal budget  that is, the temperature and/or time of any thermal treatment. However, the temperature and duration of the gettering process must be sufﬁciently high to dissolve all previously precipitated impurities and the required diffusion time should be high enough to transport impurities from the electrically-active device region to the getter sites, which depends on the distance between these regions. Conversely, the respective solubilities of the impurity metals, which are a function of the diffusion temperature, must exceed their steady-state concentration values required for microelectronics applications. Therefore, the idea of intrinsic gettering is very popular in microelectronics because it allows the getters to be brought closer to the active regions to be cleaned. The term defect engineering was introduced because the defects used as getters should be formed in specially chosen places for internal gettering procedures. The most familiar of these procedures is internal gettering using the well-established procedure of oxygen precipitate formation in Czochralski-grown silicon. Another 528 E. B. Yakimov example is nanocavity layers formed by hydrogen or helium implantation, the depth of which can be easily controlled by choosing the ion energy. An alternative approach uses getters outside the wafer or those deposited on its surface; the corresponding procedures are called external gettering. The classiﬁcation of gettering procedures as internal and external ones is an approach based on the location of getters relative to the bulk of wafer. Another approach that prevails, especially when external gettering procedures are considered, is based on the physical mechanisms of gettering. In this approach, gettering procedures are classi- ﬁed as segregation gettering, relaxation gettering, and injection gettering (Seibt and Kveder 2012). Relaxation gettering, which is also called precipitation gettering, is based on the heterogeneous precipitation of the metal impurities at nuclei formed by extended lattice defects and generated intentionally in selected regions of the wafer or on its surface. By steering the nucleation process in such way that it preferentially occurs in a selected gettering region while it is suppressed in the device area, a concentration gradient towards the gettering region is set up and the corresponding metal impurity transport can be established. For example, backside damage produced by different methods, such as mechanical treatment, laser irradiation, and ion implantation, are widely used. Relaxation gettering includes techniques that require a supersaturated solid solu- tion of mobile metal impurity species. In the supersaturated solution, metals will precipitate as a rule on preexisting nuclei and the driving force for precipitation can be not only the free energy gain associated with supersaturation of the impurities but also the energy release due to a metal decoration of extended defects. However, this approach may not be appropriate for photovoltaic applications because, even if defects serving as nuclei are introduced at the backside of a wafer, it will lead to an increase of backside surface recombination velocity and, in accordance with Eq. 16a, will decrease the short-circuit current of the cell. Of course, as shown previously, the formation of small metal precipitates in the bulk for some metals can reduce their recombination activity in comparison with completely dissolved atoms. However, it should be taken into account that precipitate formation in the bulk of solar cells can compete with other gettering processes, impeding the release of mobile species and lowering the effective diffusion coefﬁcient that slows down transport of metal impurities to external gettering regions. Injection gettering is a nonequilibrium gettering mechanism that is related to the injection of intrinsic point defects. These point defects can be generated as a result of surface reactions such as oxidation, silicide formation, or precipitation in highly doped regions. These intrinsic point defects can stimulate the dissolution of metal precipitates and a release of mobile metal species, which can be further redistributed and precipitate in the regions with a lower intrinsic point defect concentration. Another example of injection gettering is the redistribution of metal impurities diffusing via the kick-out mechanism stimulated by self-interstitials. As discussed previously, impurities such as Au, Pt, and Zn diffuse in Si as interstitial species but are predominantly dissolved on substitutional sites. To occupy the substitutional site, the metal atom kicks out the Si atom, and this reaction is reversible: 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 529 Mi $ M s þ I (23) Here, I is the self-interstitial concentration. If the self-interstitial concentration exceeds the equilibrium concentration, then the interstitial metal concentration increases and they will move to regions with lower self-interstitial concentration, where they can kick out the Si atom and occupy the substitution site. Thus, it can be possible to manage the concentration of, for example, substitutional gold by con- trolling self-interstitial generation and annihilation (Yakimov and Périchaud 1995). Places with lower self-interstitial concentration can form near extended defects, stimulating self-interstitial annihilation. The concentration of hybrid metals and corresponding recombination rates in such regions increase. Therefore, under the EBIC measurements, it would be not very easy to separate this mechanism of contrast formation from that determined by metal precipitation on the extended defect. Segregation gettering, which is also called dopant-diffusion gettering, requires contact of the silicon wafer with a material or a region of the silicon wafer itself, which drives the impurities out of the bulk of the silicon wafer. Such materials can be solid or liquid alloys, second-phase inclusions and precipitates, regions of the Si wafer with a different doping level compared to the bulk, or regions containing a high density of traps. Redistribution due to segregation gettering is driven by an enhanced solubility of metal impurities in gettering regions; in these cases, the resulting redistribution of metal impurities does not require the supersaturation of the impurities. In particular, the solubilities of several metal impurities in extrinsic silicon are higher than those in intrinsic Si; therefore, the metal concentrations can be considerably enhanced in the heavily-doped layers. To characterize the gettering efﬁciency, a segregation coefﬁcient is usually introduced as a ratio of solubilities in the bulk and in the gettering layer. One example of a segregation gettering mechanism is segregation gettering by highly doped n-type silicon. This gettering procedure can be considered as a part of phosphorus-diffusion gettering. It is widely accepted that an increase of metal solubility in highly phosphorus-doped Si is mainly determined by the formation of substitutional impurityphosphorus pairs. In highly phosphorus-doped layers, shear stress appears, and their value is high enough to generate dislocations in densities up to 106107 cm2. These dislocations can also play the role of additional effective sinks for metal atoms. Segregation gettering by highly boron-doped silicon layers can also take place due to the solubility enhancement of the positively charged interstitial metal species and their pairing with the shallow acceptor (boron). However, such mechanisms are usually much less effective than phosphorus gettering. A rather effective gettering procedure (especially for copper gettering, which also can be considered as segregation gettering) consists of using an Al-rich layer as a sink for metal impurities (so-called aluminum gettering). As follows from the binary Al-Si phase diagram, for temperatures above the eutectic temperature TE = 577 C, a liquid Al-Si phase is formed, where the metal solubility is higher as compared to the 530 E. B. Yakimov solubility in the solid Si; this provides a driving force for gettering metal impurities. In the case of Al gettering, the formation of the getter layer is very fast; therefore, metals with high diffusivity can be efﬁciently gettered. The removal of metal impurities by silicon nitride or polysilicon layers is also based on the segregation gettering effect. The former was shown to be effective for iron gettering. In the case of polysilicon ﬁlm, grain boundaries serve as the getter sites. The driving force for the impurity segregation at the grain boundaries is the difference in the free energy between the perfect silicon and the distorted sites. The type and density of grain boundaries can be controlled by the deposition procedure; for example, a lower deposition temperature results in a smaller grain size and, therefore, in higher getter efﬁciency. The grain boundary network is rather stable; therefore, such ﬁlms demonstrate high thermal stability during the getter annealing. Grain boundaries and intragrain defects also play a role as nuclei for impurity precipitation. Therefore, in such a process, relaxation gettering can also take place. For Si-based photovoltaic devices, the gettering approaches can differ from those developed for electronic-grade Si. First, solar cells are whole-wafer devices in which the active device region is the total volume of the Si substrate; therefore, only processes that remove impurities from the bulk of the wafer are suitable for such devices. This excludes the internal gettering procedures or makes them not very efﬁcient. In addition, solar-grade Si, as a rule, contains a much higher metallic contamination level in multicrystalline feedstock and a large number of extended defects, which are effective getter sinks; this can compete with external getters. It should be also taken into account that cost is an important issue for many solar cells; thus, any additional processing steps should be avoided or their number should be minimized. Therefore, the most optimal strategy for gettering in photovoltaics consists of applying the layers already used in solar cell technology as gettering ones. As an example, silicon nitride ﬁlms can be considered as a getter; they are frequently used as antireﬂection coating to increase the absorption of incident sunlight and additionally can be used as a hydrogen source. Other example is phosphorus diffusion gettering. On the one hand, it is used to form an n+-layer of the pn junction. On the other hand, phosphorus diffusion gettering is known to be a very efﬁcient procedure to remove harmful transition metals. In addition to the segregation gettering brieﬂy discussed above, self- interstitials can be generated in highly phosphorus-doped Si during phosphorus diffusion and/or precipitation. Self-interstitials can stimulate metal precipitate dis- solution enhancing their transfer into mobile species. Phosphorus precipitates can also serve as nuclei for metal relaxation gettering in the n+-layer. Recent theoretical investigations have shown that vacancies can also play an important role in phos- phorus gettering. As calculations have shown, vacancies can form energetically stable P4V complexes, and these complexes can be dominant species for phosphorus concentrations larger than 1020 cm3. These complexes can trap metal atoms with the formation of metal-P4V clusters. Furthermore, if non-equilibrium vacancies are generated during phosphorus diffusion, they can directly impact the metal precipitate size and stimulate their dissociation, similar to self-interstitials. The generation of vacancies during in-diffusion of high phosphorus concentrations can also localize 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 531 precipitation of oxygen in the highly P-doped regions because vacancies can stim- ulate oxygen precipitation. These oxygen precipitates can act as additional gettering centers for metal removal from the wafer bulk because these precipitates are well known to be efﬁcient getters, used for many years in intrinsic gettering procedure in microelectronics. Therefore, it could be that an interaction between oxygen, vacan- cies, and metal impurities is one of the most crucial factors in phosphorus diffusion gettering. Another procedure frequently used in photovoltaics gettering that works entirely through segregation mechanisms is aluminum gettering. The Al-rich layer deposi- tion on the wafer backside is part of solar-cell manufacturing for the formation of the backside contact and the backside electric ﬁeld to reﬂect electrons and thus to reduce the excess carrier recombination. It is also assumed that such layer can inject vacancies stimulating the impurity precipitate dissolution. As shown by Koveshnikov et al. (1989), the injection of intrinsic point defects can essentially enhance the impurity transport, even at rather low temperatures. Thus, it seems that aluminum gettering in combination with phosphorus diffusion gettering allows one to essentially improve the lifetime values of solar cells as compared with mc-Si ingot. It is the main reason for the relatively small effect of intentionally introduced transition metal impurities in the ingot on the cell performance. A few low-temperature procedures were recently proposed to increase the life- time value of mc-Si. As shown in Al-Amin and Murphy (2016), annealing of wafers at 400 C for a few tens of hours can essentially increase lifetime. Another proposal was to use the saw damage at the wafer surfaces (Al-Amin et al. 2017). Most mc-Si wafers are sawn from ingots grown by directional solidiﬁcation. Saw damage on both faces of the wafer appears as a result of the cutting process. These mechanically damaged regions can be used as effective metal getters. It was demonstrated that a fourfold lifetime increase can be obtained after annealing with saw damage in the temperature range from 500 C to 700 C. Usually, chemical etching is used to remove this damage; however, in this approach, it was proposed to etch wafers after gettering annealing. It was also shown that Al2O3 ﬁlms demonstrated a strong gettering effect, removing about a half of the iron after 30 min of annealing at 425 C; thus, such layers can also be used for metal gettering (Liu and Macdonald 2018). Despite much evidences of improved solar cell performance due to gettering processes, the detailed mechanisms that cause the redistribution of impurities from the bulk into the layers near the surface are still under investigation and not totally understood yet. They are determined by complex processes involved in gettering procedures, which commonly consist of several steps, including releasing metals, their diffusion to gettering places, and the formation of stable clusters in these places. The contribution of these steps to gettering mechanisms can differ for different metals. The optimal gettering conditions can also differ for different metals. The optimum gettering sequence should take all of these points, as well as cost, into consideration. This makes the experimental search for optimal gettering procedures rather complex and time consuming. For these reasons, much attention is given to the modeling of gettering processes. It allows one to estimate the stability of different 532 E. B. Yakimov conﬁgurations of impurity clusters, to reveal the dominant gettering sites for any particular metal, to determine the binding energy of metals to getter sites, and to calculate the rates of reactions involved in the gettering procedures, among others. Moreover, simulation methods are continuously being improved, which increases their predictive performance. Modeling has become an essential part of gettering process optimization, and it can be expected that the role of modeling will continue to increase in the future. Hydrogen Passivation As shown previously for monocrystalline Si, a few effective ways have been proposed to getter transitional metals. However, in multi-crystalline Si, the gettering techniques can be less effective because the intentionally formed getters compete with extended defects, which also play the role of intrinsic getters. One of the main reasons for the efﬁciency of phosphorus diffusion gettering in mc-Si may be an injection of intrinsic point defects, which stimulate the dissolution of metal pre- cipitates formed at extended defects. Therefore, some other procedures for reducing the harmful effects of metal impurities should be applied in addition to gettering in a solar cell formation process. Hydrogen passivation is one such procedure that can reduce the detrimental effect of both metal impurities and extended defects on the cell performance. Hydrogen plays a signiﬁcant role in Si technology. It has been known for many years that it can passivate the detrimental effects of many point and extended defects in semiconductor materials. Many techniques have been used for hydrogen intro- duction. In Si, the most popular are hydrogen plasma treatment, wet chemical etching, and postdeposition annealing of a hydrogen-rich SiNx layer. Advanced hydrogen passivation applied on p-type, n-type, and upgraded metallurgical-grade crystalline silicon solar cells was reviewed by Lee et al. (2018). Hydrogen diffusion from hydrogen-rich SiNx layers can be a very suitable passivation procedure to introduce hydrogen in Si solar cells because such layers are frequently used as an antireﬂection coating to increase the absorption of incident sunlight. Moreover, as noted previously, these ﬁlms can be also used for metal gettering. Under a ﬁring step used to improve the metal contact, hydrogen diffuses from the SiNx ﬁlm into Si and passivates surface and bulk defects. The hydrogen concentration typically intro- duced by this method is not very high, but it can reach 1015 cm3. In this section, the main properties of hydrogen in Si and the results of investigations on the hydrogen interaction with some metals in Si are discussed in more detail. Isolated interstitial hydrogen is found in Si in two conﬁgurations: tetrahedral (T) and relaxed bond-center sites (BC). It has charge states of 0 and + in BC sites and 0 and  in T sites. As shown by DLTS studies, H in Si has the donor level located in the range from Ec  0.16 eV to Ec  0.175 eV. The position of the acceptor level is more difﬁcult to obtain because hydrogen atoms need to overcome a barrier to capture electrons to go from the BC to the T site. Nevertheless, it is believed that the most reliable value for the acceptor level is Ec  0.65 eV. Thus, in p-type 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 533 and intrinsic Si, the stable charge state is H+ and hydrogen acts as a donor. In n- type Si, the stable charge state is H and it acts as an acceptor. Because the hydrogen donor level is above its acceptor level, it is a negative-U defect with an inverted order of levels in the gap. As a negative-U defect, H has an equilibrium occupancy level that lies midway between its donor and acceptor levels, and the hydrogen charge state depends on the position of this level with respect to the Fermi level. If the dopant concentration is very low, the number of positively charged hydrogens should be equal to the number of negatively charged hydrogens. The activation energy for hydrogen diffusion was experimentally measured in the wide temperature range to be 0.48 eV, and a theory predicts a close value. This value is ascribed to H+; the diffusivities of H0 and H are difﬁcult to measure. Hydrogen can easily penetrate into Si, even at temperatures lower than room temperature; however, its penetration depth essentially depends on the impurity content and defect density in the crystal because it effectively interacts with shallow donors and acceptors and with other point and extended defects. Therefore, its depth proﬁle is determined by trap-limited diffusion and thus depends on the trap concentration. This is similar to the case of gold diffusion into Si with vacancy-related immobile traps. Therefore, if the hydrogen surface concentration is lower than that of the traps, then its depth proﬁle should have the form of a step, with a depth as described by Eq. 5. Hydrogen forms neutral complexes with boron and phosphorus, which contain one hydrogen atom. Therefore, a hydrogen depth proﬁle can be monitored by measurements of the depth proﬁles of electrically active boron or phosphorus in p- and n-type Si, respectively, by capacitance-voltage proﬁling. The overall hydro- gen concentration is determined by the total trap concentration. If the shallow dopants are the dominant traps, hydrogen concentration can also be evaluated from such measurements. An example of such measurements is presented in Fig. 24, where the depth proﬁles of charge carriers measured in p-Si with different boron concentrations after hydrogen diffusion during wet chemical etching in an acid mixture are shown. The overall hydrogen concentration can be calculated as a difference between the bulk boron concentration and measured carrier concentration; it is also shown with solid colored lines. As seen in Fig. 24, a decay of hydrogen concentration into the bulk can be described by an exponential low. Such depen- dence is a result of Si etching because the surface layers are removed during diffusion. If the hydrogen surface concentration is higher than that of the traps, then its depth proﬁle can be described as follows: CH zð Þ  exp z=LH ð Þ LH ¼ V 2DH þ ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ V 2DH  2 þ 1 τD s (24) Here, CH and DH are the hydrogen concentration and diffusivity, respectively; Vis the etching velocity; τ = (4πDHrtNt)1; and rt and Nt are the radius of hydrogen capture by the trap and the trap concentration, respectively. In the case of interactions 534 E. B. Yakimov with boron or phosphorus, the effect of electric ﬁelds arising due to dopant passiv- ation on hydrogen transport should be also taken into account (Feklisova et al. 2002). As follows from Eq. 24, the penetration depth should decrease when the trap concentration increases. Indeed, as seen in Fig. 24, the hydrogen penetration depth decreases when the boron concentration increases, but its concentration increases and approaches the boron concentration. The radius of hydrogen capture by boron is about an order of magnitude larger than that for most other traps. Therefore, if the trap concentration in p-type Si is comparable to or lower than that of boron, hydrogen is preferentially captured by boron. However, the P-H and B-H pairs are not stable and are dissociated at approximately 100 C. Therefore, annealing at higher temperatures can release hydrogen atoms and redistribute them among other traps. If annealing of the hydrogen-rich SiNx layer is used for hydrogen introduction, shallow dopants can hardly constrain its penetration due to high annealing temperatures, although trap- ping can decrease the effective diffusivity. It was shown that the proﬁle of passivated boron also depends on the oxygen or nitrogen concentration, especially if the dopant concentration is low. In this case, some portion of hydrogen also can be captured by oxygen or nitrogen. The carbon concentration in mc-Si can reach a value close to 1018 cm3  that is, one to two orders of magnitude higher than the boron concentration. Therefore, in mc-Si, carbon can also effectively inﬂuence the hydro- gen penetration. In the following, the hydrogen interaction with metals considered in this chapter is discussed, with special attention to the possibility of passivation of their electrical activity. In the common sense, the term passivation means that the energy level of a defect disappears as a result of its interaction with hydrogen. The passivation of dangling bonds of extended defects or on the surface is a well-known example of such behavior. However, many transition metals demonstrate more complex behav- ior; for example, hydrogen-containing complexes formed with such impurities are electrically active, although the initial energy levels disappear. For such metals, only complexes that include a few hydrogen atoms become electrically inactive. Fig. 24 Depth proﬁles of charge carriers measured in monocrystalline p-Si with different boron concentrations NB after hydrogen diffusion during wet chemical etching in the acid mixture. Simulated proﬁles are shown with blue solid lines. Other solid lines show the corresponding hydrogenboron pair proﬁles 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 535 Therefore, a total hydrogen passivation proceeds via successive joining hydrogen atoms up to reaching the neutral state. The centers formed at intermediate states can be electrically active and can still affect the recombination rate. It is widely believed that the most harmful impurity in Si is iron. In Si-based solar cells, this metal has a predominant detrimental effect on the excess carrier lifetime. However, the question about the possibility of iron passivation still is unanswered. On the one hand, considering that both interstitial hydrogen and iron atoms are generally positively charged in p-type Si, it can be expected that the Coulomb repulsion of Fei and H prevents the formation of Fe-H complexes. Indeed , as observed in Feklisova et al. (2000) and Tang et al. (2011), hydrogen promoted dissociation of Fe-B pairs releasing Fei, whereas no detectable passivation of Fe-B or Fei occurred. On the other hand, ab initio calculations predicted that an Fe-H complex should be stable at room temperature and have a deep donor level at approximately Ev + 0.40 eVand a deep acceptor level at approximately Ec  0.3 eV. An energy level at Ev + 0.31 eVobserved in Leonard et al. (2015) was assigned to a Fe-H complex. Nevertheless, no evidence for a complete passivation of Fei and FeB has been found up to date. Investigations of Ni interactions with hydrogen (Schefﬂer et al. 2014b) showed that a few centers with different hydrogen content can be formed. NiH introduces into the bandgap of silicon a single-acceptor and a single-donor state at Ec  0.17 eV and Ev + 0.49 eV, respectively. NiH2 and NiH3 were shown to introduce the single- acceptor states at Ev + 0.58 eV and Ev + 0.46 eV, respectively. It was also proposed that the NH4 complex can be formed, and this complex is electrically inactive. If this is the case, then substitutional Ni can be completely passivated by hydrogen, but it takes four hydrogen atoms. As shown by Yarykin and Weber (2013), hydrogen interaction with copper leads to the appearance of CuH centers with energy levels Ev + 0.104 eV (donor) and Ev + 0.49 eV (acceptor) and CuH2 centers with energy levels Ev + 0.195 eV (donor) and Ev + 0.46 eV (acceptor). It was believed that these hydrogen-related centers are formed via a hydrogen reaction with substitutional copper. In these experiments, hydrogen was introduced by wet chemical etching in the mixture of acids. An analysis of defect depth proﬁles allowed a conclusion that, in the near surface region with the highest hydrogen concentration, the complexes including three (or more) hydrogen atoms, which have no deep levels in the lower half of the gap, are also formed. The theory also predicted that a CusH3 complex should not have deep levels. The interaction of a complex consisting of four copper atoms with hydrogen was shown to lead to its destructionthat is, hydrogen stimulates the dissociation of interstitial Cu atoms from this complex (Yarykin and Weber 2014). Thus, it is reasonable to assume that, at a high enough concentration, hydrogen can passivate substitutional copper and its main complexes. Not as much is known about hydrogens interactions with Cr. Thus, Sadoh et al. (1994) assigned three donor levels at Ec  0.28 eV, Ec  0.45 eV, and Ec  0.54 eV to interstitial chromium-hydrogen complexes. The complexes were shown to disso- ciate at temperatures lower than 175 C. However, the number of hydrogen atoms in the complexes was not obtained. Furthermore, no data were reported about the 536 E. B. Yakimov possibility of Cr passivation, although the formation of chromium-hydrogen com- plexes indicates that hydrogen can interact with interstitial chromium. Therefore, by analogy with other transition metals, it can be assumed that its passivation could occur if a large enough number of hydrogen atoms join chromium. Cobalts interactions with hydrogen have been studied more intensively than chromiumhydrogen interactions. However, the results obtained were rather contro- versial. In investigations using Laplace DLTS (Kolkovsky et al. 2014), two electri- cally active complexes of cobalt with hydrogen CosH and CosH2 were detected. Both centers have only one corresponding acceptor energy level at Ec  0.35 eV and Ec  0.29 eV, respectively. Both centers are stable up to 300 C. The theoretical calculations allow one to assume that the CosH3 complex can be electrically inactive  that is, cobalt passivation with hydrogen is possible. Hydrogens interactions with titanium also lead to the formation of new electri- cally active centers. Single-donor energy levels at Ec  0.08 eV and Ec  0.34 eV were ascribed to centers containing one titanium atom. According to theoretical predictions, such centers can have two conﬁgurations: with an H atom bonded to a Ti atom at the tetrahedral site (TiiH) and with H tied up to the Si dangling bond with an Si atom moving away from the substitutional site along a trigonal axis (TiiHBC). The energy level at Ec  0.08 eV was attributed to the TiiH, whereas the level at Ec  0.34 eV was attributed to TiiHBC. The depth proﬁle measurements allow one to ascribe the energy level at Ec  0.38 eV to the single-donor state of TiiH2. Gold was the ﬁrst impurity for which the formation of a set of hydrogen-related electrically active centers was established. Hydrogens interactions with gold lead to the appearance of three energy levels: a double acceptor at Ec  0.19 eV, single acceptor at Ec  0.47 eV, and single donor at Ev + 0.21 eV for AuH. The single- acceptor level at Ec  0.53 eV was attributed to AuH2. Neutral Au-H complexes were also reported, which means that substitutional gold can be completely passiv- ated at high enough hydrogen concentrations; however, the exact composition of these neutral complexes has not yet been established. The Au-H complexes are rather stable at room temperature. Even at 420 K, it takes a few hours to decrease their concentration. As in the case of some other transition metals, silver can form complexes with hydrogen. DLTS investigations (Yarykin et al. 1999) showed that two electrically active centers appear as a result: AgH and AgH2. Similar to gold, AgH has three levels: a double-acceptor level at Ec  0.09 eV, single-acceptor level at Ec  0.45 eV, and donor level at Ev + 0.28 eV. AgH2 has a single-donor level at Ev + 0.38 eV and possibly a single-acceptor level at Ec + 0.5 eV. The presence of a neutral Ag-H complex is also conﬁrmed. Its composition has not yet been established, but some calculations predict that AgH3 should be electrically inactive. Silver-hydrogen complexes are stable up to 400 C. The interaction of hydrogen with Zn has been studied only by optical absorption. Nevertheless, such experiments allow one to assume that the Zn-H complexes can be also electrically active. It has been well established that hydrogen passivation improves the performance of Si solar cells signiﬁcantly, but which defects passivation are responsible for such 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 537 improvements is yet unknown. Thus, it is widely believed that solar cell performance is mainly deteriorated due to transition metals, particularly iron. However, based on the previous discussion, the possibility of hydrogen passivation of iron and perhaps some other transition metals is not so obvious. The transition metals that are most detrimental for solar cell performance formed new deep-level centers with hydrogen; their complete passivation, if possible, needs high hydrogen concentrations. More- over, the thermal stability of metal-hydrogen complexes is not very high. Disloca- tions and grain boundaries were shown to be effectively passivated with hydrogen. However, grain boundary passivation was shown to depend on the boundary type, their faceting, and decorations with metals. As a result, the recombination activity of some grain boundaries strongly decreases after passivation, whereas that of other GBs does not. Nevertheless, even if only a half of the grain boundaries are passiv- ated, it will increase the average distance between the active boundaries and, in accordance with Eqs. 20 and 21, will suppress their effects on the short-circuit current. In addition, hydrogen passivates the surfaces, decreasing the surface recom- bination velocity, which also can improve the solar cell performance. The stability of hydrogen passivation under subsequent thermal treatments and under sun illumina- tion is also not fully understood. Thus, a deeper microstructural understanding of which defects are most effectively passivated, and which respond poorly to hydro- genation, is needed to guide the optimization of hydrogen passivation in solar cell manufacturing. Conclusion Transition metals are the most detrimental defects in Si-based solar cell technology. They play the role of lifetime killer and enhance the recombination activity of extended defects. They both degrade the solar cell performance and decrease the short-circuit current. In addition, decoration with metals and extended defects can increase leakage current and even lead to shunt formation, thus decreasing the open circuit voltage values. However, expensive cleaning procedures should be avoided in solar cell processing because cost is an important issue for photovoltaics. There- fore, relatively inexpensive procedures should be developed to reduce the metal content in the bulk of the wafer or suppress the harmful effects. An important limitation for these procedures is the requirement that they should be compatible with silicon-based solar cell processing. Thus, the optimization of such procedures requires a better understanding of the transition metal and extended defect proper- ties, as well as a deeper understanding of the mechanisms of their diffusion, precipitation, and interactions with extended and point defects. Despite a long history of such investigations, many unanswered questions remain. The efﬁciency of gettering and hydrogen passivation procedures for any particular metal, as well as its dependence on thermal treatment conditions, should also be studied in more detail. Modeling of the involved mechanisms is expected to be very useful in solving these unanswered questions. 538 E. B. Yakimov Cross-References Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films Upgrade Metallurgical Grade Silicon References K. Adamczyk, R. Søndenå, C.C. You, G. Stokkan, J. Lindroos, M. Rinio, M. Di Sabatino, Phys. Status Solidi A 215, 1700493 (2018) M. Al-Amin, J.D. Murphy, J. Appl. Phys. 119, 235704 (2016) M. Al-Amin, N.E. Grant, J.D. Murphy, Phys. Status Solidi (RRL) 11, 1700268 (2017) J. Chen, T. Sekiguchi, D. Yang, Phys. Status Solidi C 4, 2908 (2007) B. Chen, J. Chen, T. Sekiguchi, M. Saito, K. Kimoto, J. Appl. Phys. 105, 113502 (2009) S.C. Choo, Phys. Rev. B 1, 687 (1970) C. Claeys, E. Simoen, Metal Impurities in Silicon and Germanium-Based Technologies. Origin, Characterization, Control, and Device Impact (Springer, Basel, 2018) G. Coletti, P.C.P. Bronsveld, G. Hahn, W. Warta, D. Macdonald, B. Ceccaroli, K. Wambach, N. Le Quang, J.M. Fernandez, Adv. Funct. Mater. 21, 879 (2011) C. Donolato, Appl. Phys. Lett. 46, 270 (1985) C. Donolato, Semicond. Sci. Technol. 7, 37 (1992) C. Donolato, J. Appl. Phys. 84, 2656 (1998a) C. Donolato, Semicond. Sci. Technol. 13, 781 (1998b) O.V. Feklisova, A.L. Parakhonsky, E.B. Yakimov, J. Weber, Mater. Sci. Eng. B 71, 268 (2000) O.V. Feklisova, E.B. Yakimov, N.A. Yarykin, Semiconductors 36, 282 (2002) O.V. Feklisova, X. Yu, D. Yang, E.B. Yakimov, Phys. Status Solidi C 9, 1942 (2012) K. Graff, Metal Impurities in Silicon-Device Fabrication, 2nd edn. (Springer, Berlin/Heidelberg, 2000) R.N. Hall, Phys. Rev. 87, 387 (1952) F.D. Heinz, M. Breitwieser, P. Gundel, M. Konig, M. Horteis, W. Warta, M.C. Schubert, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 131, 105 (2014) T. Heiser, A. Mesli, Phys. Rev. Lett. 68, 978 (1992) A.A. Istratov, T. Buonassisi, M.D. Pickett, M. Heuer, E.R. Weber, Mater. Sci. Eng. B 134, 282 (2006) M. Kittler, J. Lärz, W. Seifert, M. Seibt, W. Schröter, Appl. Phys. Lett. 58, 911 (1991) V.I. Kolkovsky, L. Schefﬂer, J. Weber, Physica B 439, 24 (2014) S.V. Koveshnikov, E.B. Yakimov, N. Yarykin, V.A. Yunkin, Phys. Status Solidi A 111, 81 (1989) S.H. Lee, M.F. Bhopal, D.W. Lee, S.H. Lee, Mater. Sci. Semicond. Process. 79, 66 (2018) S. Leonard, V.P. Markevich, A.R. Peaker, B. Hamilton, J.D. Murphy, Appl. Phys. Lett. 107, 032103 (2015) A.Y. Liu, D. Macdonald, Phys. Status Solidi (RRL) 12, 1700430 (2018) A. Mesli, T. Heiser, E. Mulheim, Mater. Sci. Eng. B 25, 141 (1994) V.I. Orlov, E.B. Yakimov, E.P. Magomedbekov, A.B.. Danilin, Adv. Condens. Matter Phys. 2017, 1946490 (2017) O. Palais, E. Yakimov, S. Martinuzzi, Mater. Sci. Eng. B 9192, 216 (2002) S.M. Peshcherova, E.B. Yakimov, A.I. Nepomnyashchikh, L.A. Pavlova, O.V. Feklisova, Semi- conductors 49, 724 (2015) S. Pizzini, Advanced Silicon Materials for Photovoltaic Applications (Wiley, Chichester, 2012) I.E. Reis, S. Riepe, W. Koch, J. Bauer, S. Beljakowa, O. Breitenstein, H. Habenicht, D. Kreßner- Kiel, G. Pensl, J. Schon, W. Seifert, in Proceedings of the 24th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition, Hamburg, 2009, p. 2144 17 Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon 539 T. Sadoh, M. Watanabe, H. Nakashima, T. Tsurushima, J. Appl. Phys. 75, 3978 (1994) L. Schefﬂer, V. Kolkovsky, J. Weber, AIP Conf. Ser. 1583, 85 (2014a) L. Schefﬂer, V. Kolkovsky, J. Weber, J. Appl. Phys. 116, 173704 (2014b) J. Schmidt, B. Lim, D. Walter, K. Bothe, S. Gatz, T. Dullweber, P.P. Altermatt, IEEE J. Photovoltaics 3, 114 (2013) M. Seibt, V. Kveder, in Advanced Silicon Materials for Photovoltaic Applications, ed. by b. S. Pizzini, (Wiley, Chichester, 2012), p. 127 Y.L. Shabelnikova, E.B. Yakimov, J. Surf. Investig. 6, 894 (2012) W. Shockley, W.T. Read, Phys. Rev. 87, 835 (1952) G. Stokkan, D.S. Marisa, R. Søndenå, M. Juel, A. Autruffe, K. Adamczyk, H.V. Skarstad, K.E. Ekstrøm, M.S. Wiig, C.C. You, H. Haug, M. MHamdi, Phys. Status Solidi A 214, 1700319 (2017) T. Tachibana, T. Sameshima, T. Kojima, K. Arafune, K. Kakimoto, Y. Miyamura, H. Harada, T. Sekiguchi, Y. Ohshita, A. Ogura, J. Appl. Phys. 111, 074505 (2012) H. Takahashi, M. Suezawa, K. Sumino, Phys. Rev. B 46, 1882 (1992) C.K. Tang, L. Vines, B.G. Svensson, E.V. Monakhov, Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 052106 (2011) E.B. Yakimov, J. Phys. Condens. Matter 14, 13069 (2002) E. Yakimov, I. Périchaud, Appl. Phys. Lett. 67, 2054 (1995) E. Yakimov, G. Mariani, B. Pichaud, J. Appl. Phys. 78, 1495 (1995) N. Yarykin, J. Weber, Phys. Rev. B 88, 085205 (2013) N. Yarykin, J. Weber, Appl. Phys. Lett. 105, 012109 (2014) N. Yarykin, J. Weber, Appl. Phys. Lett. 109, 102101 (2016) N. Yarykin, J.-U. Sachse, H. Lemke, J. Weber, Phys. Rev. B 59, 5551 (1999) T. Zundel, J. Weber, B. Benson, P.O. Hahn, A. Schnegg, H. Prigge, Appl. Phys. Lett. 53, 1426 (1988) 540 E. B. Yakimov Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 18 Ichiro Yonenaga Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 542 Dislocation Structures ........................................................................... 543 Crystal Structure ............................................................................. 543 Dislocation Structures ....................................................................... 544 Dislocation Motion and Plastic Deformation in High-Purity Si ............................... 547 Dislocation Velocity ......................................................................... 548 Plastic Deformation and Yield Strength ..................................................... 550 Dislocation Mechanism ......................................................................... 553 Hirth-Lothe Kink Diffusion Model .......................................................... 553 Dislocation Dynamics in Deformation ...................................................... 555 Controversy of Shufﬂe- or Glide-Set Dislocations ......................................... 557 Impurity Effects on Dislocation Activities ...................................................... 558 Critical Stress for Dislocation Generation ................................................... 558 Dislocation Immobilization .................................................................. 561 Suzuki Effect ................................................................................. 563 Dislocation Velocity ......................................................................... 564 Stimulated Dislocation Motion .................................................................. 567 Recombination-Enhanced Dislocation Glides ............................................... 567 Hydrogen-Enhanced Dislocation Glides .................................................... 569 Fracture .......................................................................................... 570 Fracture Toughness .......................................................................... 570 Brittle-to-Ductile Transition ................................................................. 571 Electrical and Optical Properties of Dislocations ............................................... 573 Electrical Characters ......................................................................... 573 Model of Electronic Structures of Dislocations ............................................. 574 Recombination at Dislocations .............................................................. 576 Dislocation-Related Deep States ............................................................ 576 Dislocation-Related Shallow States ......................................................... 577 I. Yonenaga (*) Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan e-mail: yonenaga@imr.tohoku.ac.jp  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_24 541 Characteristics of Dislocations Speciﬁc in Solar Cell Si ....................................... 578 Dislocation Behavior in Multi-crystalline Si ................................................ 579 Effect on Efﬁciency and Electrical Properties of Si Solar Cells ............................ 580 Conclusive Remarks for Further Developments ................................................ 581 Cross-References ................................................................................ 582 References ....................................................................................... 582 Abstract Current understanding of various properties of dislocations in Si is given com- prehensively for photovoltaic applications. Dislocations cause spatial variations in the electrical and optical properties of semiconductor materials and also the degradation of various kinds of semiconductor devices. Thus, establishing knowl- edge on mechanical properties of dislocations and also interactions between dislocations and impurities is important from both the fundamental and practical viewpoints for development of semiconductor technology. Indeed, the knowledge is widely applied as the basis for dislocation-free crystal growth and device fabrication process in Si. Keywords Dislocations  Atomic structure  Dissociation  Stacking fault  Reconstruction  Soliton  Velocity  Yield strength  Plasticity  Twin  Shufﬂe-glide-controversy  Impurity effect  Immobilization  Locking  Recombination-enhanced dislocation glide  Fracture  Toughness  Brittle-to-ductile transition (BDT)  Electrical-optical properties  Electronic structure  Shallow and deep energy states  Recombination Introduction It is well known that dislocations cause spatial variations in the electrical and optical properties of semiconductor materials and also the degradation of various kinds of semiconductor devices, including photovoltaic applications. Thus, a great deal of effort has been conducted that a semiconductor crystal is being kept free from or low density of dislocations during growth and various processes. Dislocations are intro- duced into a semiconductor crystal under stress or stimulation at elevated tempera- tures followed by means of their motion and multiplication. Such dislocation processes are governed by the dynamic properties of dislocations. Presence of impurities and point defects affects detrimentally on such dynamic activities of dislocations and the mechanical properties of semiconductor crystals at high tem- peratures through a variety of interactions. For example, Si crystals containing oxygen (O) impurities, i.e., Czochralski (CZ)-grown Si, are being exclusively used as the materials for integrated devices because of their smaller susceptibility against the generation of dislocations or the occurrence of wafer warpage caused by thermal stress related to device production processing in comparison with oxygen-free Si, i.e., typically ﬂoat-zone (FZ)-Si. Clariﬁcation of behavior of dislocations under stress and/or impurity presence in semiconductor crystals is quite important 542 I. Yonenaga practically from the technological viewpoints of the crystal growth and the devices production and, at the same time, important fundamentally. Interaction between dislocations and impurities in semiconductors has two inter- esting aspects from the scientiﬁc viewpoint. One is the effect of dislocations on the spatial distribution of impurities in a crystal, such as impurity accumulation, defect reaction, and complex formation. The other is the effect of impurities on various kinds of activities of dislocations. Some impurities may accumulate on dislocations when a certain thermal condition is fulﬁlled. The concentration of such impurities in the region around a dislocation is then different from that in the region far from it, and the electrical and optical properties become inhomogeneous within the crystal. The accumulation of impurities results in immobilizing the dislocation. This leads to mechanically strengthen the crystal through suppression of macroscopic generation of dislocations. Thus, the mechanical properties of the crystals are understood on the basis of a microscopic model with the dynamic properties of individual dislocations with and without effects of impurities. This chapter gives the current understanding of various properties of dislocations in Si comprehensively in a viewpoint for photovoltaic applications. Section Dislocation Structures brieﬂy reminds atomic structures of dislocations in Si. Section Dislocation Motion and Plastic Deformation in High-Purity Si describes the dislocation velocities and plastic deformation in high-purity Si, followed by the mechanisms governing motion of an individual dislocation and dynamics based on the collective motion of dislocations during plastic deformation in section Dislocation Mechanism. In the section, the recent shufﬂe-glide set controversy, regarding the dislocation structures in Si, is explained. Section Impurity Effects on Dislocation Activities summarizes the dynamic activ- ities of individual dislocations, as generation, immobilization, and velocities under effects of various impurities. Section Stimulated Dislocation Motion shows dislocation motion stimulated by recombination and hydrogen treatment. Section Fracture brieﬂy summarizes fracture behavior of Si. Section Electrical and Optical Properties of Dislocations describes recent understandings on electrical and optical properties of dislocations in Si. Characteristics of dislocations in mc-Si for solar cells are described in section Characteristics of Dislocations Speciﬁc in Solar Cell Si. There are comprehensive reviews of dislocation-related problems in semiconductors as given by Alexander and Haasen (1968), by Alexander (1986), by Sumino (1994), and by Schröter and Cerva (2002). The reader interested in the dislocations and plasticity of Si governed by dislocation motion may refer to the overview by the present author (Yonenaga 2015). Dislocation Structures Crystal Structure Si is a purely covalent bonded material and crystallizes in the diamond cubic (DC) structure where atoms are coordinated tetrahedrally. The lattice parameter a is 0.543 nm at RT. As can be seen in Fig. 1, the structure is two interpenetrating 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 543 face-centered cubic (fcc) lattices with one atom at (0, 0, 0) and the other at (1/4, 1/4, 1/4). Though the {111} atomic plane is the most closely packed one in the structure, there are two kinds of spacing of {111} planes, as illustrated in Fig. 1b, i.e., a widely spaced set, called the shufﬂe set with a spacing of (3)a/4 between the adjacent planes, and a narrowly spaced one called the glide set with a spacing of (3)a/12 (Hirth and Lothe 1982). Si is DC structure at the standard pressure (1013 hPa) and up to the melting temperature TM of 1687 K. Si transforms to several types of phases under hydrostatic pressure, such as to the metallic phase (Si-I to Si-II) under a pressure of 12 GPa (Kailer et al. 1997). Table 1 shows some basic properties of Si relevant to this chapter (Sze 1981). Dislocation Structures A dislocation glissile in DC structure crystals has the smallest Burgers vector b = a/2 110  on the {111} planes. Dislocations are energetically stable when they are parallel to the 110 directions on the slip planes in DC structure crystals along the high Peierls potential valley. Hence, the shape of a stable dislocation loop is hexagonal with two opposite screw and four 60 segments, as seen in Fig. 2a. Such a dislocation can move on the plane situated between widely or closely spaced atomic planes, i.e., shufﬂe-set or glide-set, respectively. From a geomet- rical perspective, a dislocation on the glide-set plane is extended into two Shock- ley partial dislocations bounding a ribbon of intrinsic stacking fault, the width of which is determined by the stacking fault energy. Typically the width is around 610 nm as in Fig. 3a (Wessel and Alexander 1977). Thus, the 60 segment consists of a 90 and a 30 Shockley partial of Burgers vector a/6  112  [100] [010] [001] [111] [100] [010] [001] [111] shuffle glide shuffle glide Fig. 1 Images of the diamond structure. The two interpenetrating unit cells are shown in blue and red, respectively. The right-side image shows the stacking of (111) glide- and shufﬂe-set planes of Si 544 I. Yonenaga bounding a ribbon of stacking fault as in Fig. 2b, while the screw segment consists of two 30 Shockley partials in Fig. 2c. On the other hand, a dislocation in the shufﬂe-set plane is perfect since there are no stable stacking faults on the shufﬂe planes. Shockley partial dislocations cannot move in the shufﬂe-set plane without point defect generation and dragging, leading to a nonconservative energy increase. Figure 2d shows a perfect 60 dislocation in the shufﬂe-set (Hornstra 1958). From the huge number of published reports on observations of dislocations and structures, it is well understood that dislocations at high temperatures are dissociated, while dislocations are considered to be perfect at low temperatures induced under high stress as seen in Fig. 3b (Rabier et al. 2001, 2010). Here, it notes that the Peierls stress, given by the ratio of the magnitude of Burgers vector to the slip plane spacing, for a glide-set dislocation is higher than that for a shufﬂe- set one. Dislocations, glide- or shufﬂe-set, have geometrical dangling bonds at the core. Based on experimental ﬁndings of the electronic state of dislocations and theoretical studies, it is considered that such geometrical dangling bonds are reconstructed to form bonds between two neighboring atoms along the dislocation cores to reduce their energy, which is called reconstruction. A possible reconstruction model con- sists in the paring of dangling bonds along the dislocation line. There are two types of reconstructions: one is single periodic (SP reconstruction) and the other is duplet periodic (DP reconstruction) in the 90 partial dislocation. In the 30 partial (Fig. 4), the reconstruction is energetically favor in the order of 1 eV per dimer. In the 90 partial, the SP and DP reconstructions have almost comparable energy and may coexist (Bennetto et al. 1997; Lehto and Öberg 1998; Valladares et al. 1998; Justo Table 1 Basic properties of Si Atomic weight: M 14 Atomic radius: r nm 0.117 Lattice constant: a nm 0.5431 Density: ρ g/cm3 2.33 Atomic number in a unit volume: N cm3 5  1022 Bandgap (@0 K/@RT): Eg eV 1.17/1.12 Intrinsic carrier density (@RT): ni cm3 1.45  1013 Elastic constant (@RT): C11 GPa 166 C44 GPa 64.0 C12 GPa 79.6 Shear modulus: G GPa 60.5 Strength (@ TM/@(2/3)TM): τ GPa 1.0/40 Surface energy (111): γ erg/cm2 1230 Linear thermal expansion (@RT/@TM): α K1 2.6  106/4.4  106 Thermal conductivity (@RT/@TM): κ W/m K 157/31 Gibbs standard free energy of dioxide formation (@TM): ΔG kJ/mol 6.80 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 545 et al. 1999a). Both types of reconstructions leave an unpaired dangling bond along the dislocation line, called an antiphase defect or a soliton, deriving an electrical character into deformed crystals. - screw screw 120(60) 60 - 120 (-60) - 60 b 110 a b c d 90 150 (30) -150 (-30) -90 -30 30 30 90 150 (30) -30 -150 (-30) -90 Perfect dislocation Dissociated dislocation 30 partial 90 partial Fig. 2 (a) Expanding hexagonal loop of perfect and dissociated dislocations in diamond structure. Arrows show perfect and partial displacements of an atom on the (111) plane in the left bottom and correspond to their Burgers vector of each segment of dislocation loops. Atomic conﬁguration of (b) a dissociated glide-set60 dislocation, (c) a dissociated glide-set screw dislocation, and (d) a perfect shufﬂe-set60 dislocation. Stacking fault is between blue and red atomic planes in the glide set. In both sets, red- or sky-colored atoms have a dangling bond 546 I. Yonenaga Dislocation Motion and Plastic Deformation in High-Purity Si Plastic deformation of a crystal takes place through the generation, motion, and multiplication of dislocations in the crystal under physical and/or chemical stimula- tion such as stress and chemical reaction. The processes are governed by the dynamic properties of dislocations. Herein, experimental data on velocities of 儚 儚 儚儚 儚儚 Fig. 3 (a) A dissociated dislocation loop in Si deformed at 420 C (by weak-beam observation, from Wessel and Alexander 1977), (b) perfect dislocations in Si deformed at 150 C (Rabier et al. 2001). (Reused under permissions of Tayler & Francis and Elsevier) 90 30 S S SP a b c DP 90 30 Fig. 4 (111) plane views of (a) perfect crystal and (b) unreconstructed and (c) reconstructed structure of a 90 and 30 partial dislocations. In (c) unpaired dangling bonds (solitons), single- period (SP) and double-period (DP) reconstructions on partials are illustrated 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 547 dislocations in high-purity or nominally undoped Si crystals are summarized. Some contents are given in the overview by the present author (Yonenaga 2015). Dislocation Velocity A huge number of papers have been published on dislocation velocities in Si crystals. Figure 5 shows the velocities of an isolated 60 dislocation in a temperature range from 350 C to 1300 C. The results were obtained by various experimental methods of the ex situ intermittent method as the double and single etch pit techniques, the in situ X-ray topographic and high-voltage transmission electron microscopic (TEM) technique, stressing by the three- and four-point bending or compressive and tensile stressing, static or pulse stress application, and so on. The velocities of dislocations depend strongly on the applied shear stress shown by the numerals in the ﬁgure. In a comprehensive view, including the results by micro- scopic TEM observation, the temperature dependence of dislocation velocities reported by the groups fall into a narrowband with the same slope except for the high-temperature regime. This indicates that the mechanism of dislocation motion is the same in a temperature range with the certain activation energy for dislocation motion. Essentially the same feature was observed for screw dislocations. The dislocation velocity v is well expressed by the following empirical equation as a function of applied shear stress τ and temperature T: v ¼ v0 τ=τ0 ð Þm exp Q=kT ð Þ,τ0 ¼ 1 MPa, (1) Fig. 5 Velocities of 60 dislocations as a function of temperature. FN (Farber and Nikitenko 1982), IS (Imai and Sumino 1983), Yo1 (Yonenaga 1999), Yo2 (Yonenaga unpublished), EN (Erfeev and Nikitenko 1971), Lo (Louchet 1981), Ym (Yamashita et al. 1999), Ys (Yasutake et al. 1987), KA (Küsters and Alexander 1983). Numerals show the stress applied in the studies. Velocity of twins under 280 MPa is superimposed by a blue dotted line (Yasutake et al. 1987) 548 I. Yonenaga where v0, m, and Q are constants and k is the Boltzmann constant. Here, τ corre- sponds to the effective stress τeff, discussed later. Since Si crystals used for these kinds of velocity determination experiments generally have low density of disloca- tions or no dislocations, the applied stress is almost same as the effective stress. The stress exponent m and activation energy Q for dislocation motion of 60 dislocations reported by various groups in Fig. 5 are shown in Table 2 together with the Table 2 Magnitudes of m and Q for 60 dislocation velocity in Si together with experimental conditions Groups m Q (eV) Stress (MPa) Temperature (C) Method Farber-Nikitenko (1982)  4+/0.1 245 10501300 Double etch pit technique 4-point pulse bending Farber-Nikitenko (1982)  2.12.3 245 6501050 Double etch pit technique 4-point pulse bending Imai-Sumino (1983) 1 2.20 140 603773 In situ X-ray topography Tensile Yonenaga (1999) 1 2.4 330 650950 Single etch pit technique Surface scratch 3-point bending Yonenaga 1 2.3 230 560700 Single etch pit technique Surface scratch 3-point bending Erofeev- Nikitenko (1971) 1.31.43 2.252.1 10500 500800 Double etch pit technique 4-point bending Louchet (1981) (1.2) 1.9+/0.1 130280 520600 In situ HVTEM Tensile Yamashita et al. (1999)  2.2 68 420580 Double etch pit technique 4-point bending Yasutake et al. (1987) 1.431.95 1.961.84 80350 420500 Single etch pit technique Surface Knoop impression 4-point bending Küsters- Alexander (1983) 1.871.93 1.82 245326 325422 Double etch pit technique Compression 30/90 dislocations 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 549 experimental methods and stress and temperature range investigated. m is 1 or slightly higher than unity, ranging from 1.2 to 1.4 at elevated temperatures, while m is slightly dependent, increasing to 1.9 with an increase in the applied stress, explicitly at low temperatures. Q is 2.202.40 eV, almost constant under a wide range of applied stress up to 100 MPa, though Q decreases to around 1.8 eV under a high applied stress, especially at low temperatures. Possibly, the decrease implies an effective reduction of kink formation energy by stress assistance, which is discussed later in terms of the Peierls and kink mechanisms. In the temperature region from around 1050 C to the melting temperature, Farber and Nikitenko (1982) reported a strong dependence of dislocation velocity on temperature with Q4 eV. The cause is understood to be a change of dislocation activation mechanism in relation to the cooperation of self-diffusion (Siethoff 2002). The shape of moving dislocations was identiﬁed to be a regular hexagonal loop or a half-hexagonal loop in in situ and ex situ experiments as seen in Fig. 4a (Wessel and Alexander 1977; Sumino and Harada 1981; Imai and Sumino 1983). Küsters and Alexander (1983) conducted an ex situ experiment where dislocations were generated in advance at a higher temperature and then stressed at 325422 C under a stress of 294 MPa. After stressing they observed dislocations in the specimens by TEM and conﬁrmed that dislocations were dissociated as 90 leading and 30 trailing partials (90/30) and were well hexagonally shaped. The dissociation width was governed by the applied stresses (Vanderschaeve and Caillard 2007). In the intermediate-temperature region as 300500 C, thin twin bands are observed to develop under a high stress applied (Yasutake et al. 1987). A leading partial dislocation leaves a stacking fault behind it by the motion, if the motion of the paired trailing is slow or in rest. A thin twin develops through such superior motion of leading partial dislocations on successively neighboring atomic planes (Meingast and Alexander 1973). The velocity of a twin, superimposed by the dotted line in Fig. 5, is somewhat higher than that of an isolated dislocation with dependences on applied stress and temperature similar to Eq. (1). Plastic Deformation and Yield Strength Many groups have measured yield strength as a function of temperature for Si by various methods. Figure 6 shows the logarithm of yield strength of Si crystals plotted against the reciprocal temperature from RT to 1300 C (Yonenaga 2015). Here, the yield strength is deﬁned as the lower yield stress or the ﬁrst deviation from the linearity (elastic region) of the measured stress-strain curves. It is known that there are two regimes in the temperature dependence of the strength with a knee at 400 C. In a temperature regime higher than 600 C, Si can be deformed by compression or tension under atmospheric pressure. The overall deformation is commonly char- acterized with a remarkable drop in stress after yielding followed by a gradual increase in stress with strain due to work hardening in the plastic deformation (Yonenaga and Sumino 1978; Yonenaga 1996). The stress-strain behavior depends sensitively on the temperature and the strain rate. The yield strength and the 550 I. Yonenaga subsequent ﬂow stresses decrease with an increase in the temperature, and a decrease in the strain rate brings about the same effect as an increase in the temperature. The yield strength of dislocation-free (DF-) Si such as Y1 is higher than that of Si with grown-in dislocations of 104 cm2 as Y2 though there is a limit of the temperature region without fracture before the appearance of ductility. Also, Si pre-strained (PS) in advance at a high temperature (O2) can be deformed at temperatures as low as around 550 C, slightly lower than that for DF-Si (O1) (Omri et al. 1987). Grown-in dislocations or pre-induced dislocations act as a multiplication source of dislocations for deformation to shift a so-called brittle-to-ductile transition temper- ature TBDT to the lower temperature (see section Brittle-to-Ductile Transition). In the temperature regime lower than 600 C, Si can be deformed using specially arranged hydrostatic equipment. As noted for fracture at RT, the size of a specimen for deformation is quite critical. Small, thin plates (membranes), or micron-scaled pillars have been deformed by compression or tension at atmospheric pressure (Nakao et al. 2008; Korte et al. 2011). Nakao et al. (2008) conducted tension tests of micromembrane Si specimens of 4 μm in thickness. At temperatures higher than 300 C, specimens showed the elastic to plastic feature of the stress-strain curves Fig. 6 Yield strength of Si as a function of temperature. Y1, conventional test of dislocation-free (DF) Si (Yonenaga 1996); O1, conventional test of DF-Si (Omri et al. 1987); Y2, conventional test of Si with grown-in dislocations (Yonenaga and Sumino 1978); O2, conventional test of pre-strained (PS) Si (Omri et al. 1987); C, under a conﬁning pressure of 1.5 GPa (Castaing et al. 1981); R, under a conﬁning pressure of 5 GPa (Rabier et al. 2010); K, compression test of micron- scaled pillars (Korte et al. 2011); N, tension test of membrane Si (Nakao et al. 2008). Sample condition, strain rate for deformation, and axis for stressing are shown in the ﬁgure. DF dislocation- free, D dislocated, PS pre-strained, CP under a conﬁning pressure of 1.5 or 5 GPa. Open symbols of N show fracture strength. (Yonenaga 2015; Reused under permission of Elsevier) 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 551 with development of slip lines before fracture, while at the lower temperatures, the stress-strain relationships were linear until the fracture, showing elastic deformation and then brittle fracture. The yield or fracture strength at temperatures lower than 300 C were almost constant as 2.8 GPa. Korte et al. (2011) and Rabier et al. (2013) conducted compression testing of micro-pillars at temperatures up to 500 C under atmospheric condition. Micro-pillars with diameters of 2 μm were uniaxially deformed along the [001] direction. Stress-strain curves showed little plasticity followed by brittle fracture at RT, concurrent plasticity and cracking at 200 C, and plastic deformation at 400 C. Yield stresses at temperatures lower than 300 C were almost constant as 2.5 GPa. They observed micro-cracks in specimens deformed at 100 C and twinning and partial dislocations at 500 C. Minor et al. (2005) observed dislocation generation in nano-size wedges during in situ indenta- tion in a TEM at RT. Bulk specimens with a size similar to that for deformation at higher temperatures can be compressively deformed without fracture under a conﬁning (hydrostatic) pressure of 1.55 GPa, as explored by the Castaing-Veyssiére-Rabier group (Castaing et al. 1981; Rabier et al. 2010). Strangely, the reported stress-strain curves were not accompanied by yielding or subtle yielding phenomena, depending on the conﬁning pressure. The conﬁning media probably damage specimen surfaces during the deformation (Castaing et al. 1981; Rabier et al. 1983, 2010). In the temperature region higher than 300400 C, the temperature dependence of the yield strength is similar to or varies slightly lower than that without pressure. Contrarily, in the low-temperature region below 300400 C to RT, the yield strength of Si is almost constant as 1.5 GPa as seen in Fig. 6 (Si-R), showing a drastic change of temperature dependence. In the experimental experiences except at extreme temperatures close to the melting temperature, the yield stress τy of Si in the temperature range higher than the knee around 300400 C is described as a function of temperature T and strain rate _e by the following empirical equation (Yonenaga and Sumino 1978; Yonenaga 2005d): τy ¼ A_e1=n exp U=kT ð Þ, (2) where A, n, and U are constants. n is reported to be 3 (Yonenaga 1978; Schröter et al. 1983). Table 3 gives U experimentally reported for the results shown in Fig. 6. Table 3 Magnitudes of n and U for yield strength in Si n U (eV) Conditions Yonenaga (1996)  0.80 [123] tension, 2  104 s1 Dislocation-free Omri et al. (1987)  0.79 [123] compression, 2  104 s1 Dislocation-free Yonenaga-Sumino (1978) 3.3 0.80 [123] tension, 2  104 s1 Grown-in dislocations: 2  104 cm2 Omri et al. (1987)  0.72 [123] compression, 2  105 s1 Pre-strained 552 I. Yonenaga Figure 7 shows the yield strength of dislocation-free Si crystals plotted against a reciprocal temperature at temperatures close to the melting point. The lower yield stress in the temperature region shows the temperature dependence with U  1.3 eV, steeper than that in the lower temperatures. This implies that dislocations move more easily corresponding to the results by Farber and Nikitenko (1982) shown in Fig. 5, probably due to the cooperation of self-diffusion. Dislocation Mechanism Hirth-Lothe Kink Diffusion Model It is commonly accepted that the elementary process of dislocation glide in semi- conductors consists of the thermally activated nucleation of a kink pair of critical separation on a dislocation line lying along the Peierls valley and the subsequent migration of the nucleated kink along the dislocation line as a second-type Peierls potential. Hirth and Lothe (1982) derived the following equation of a dislocation velocity described by the kink diffusion model: v ¼ bh2νD=kT   τL exp  Fkp þ W m   =kT   , (3) where b is the magnitude of the Burgers vector b of a dislocation, h is the distance between adjacent Peierls valleys [h = (3)b/2], νD is the Debye frequency attempting kink formation and migration, L is the length of the moving dislocation, Wm is the activation energy for migration of a kink, and Fkp is the activation energy for formation of a kink pair, determined by the formation energy of a single kink Fk in a function of stress as Fig. 7 Lower yield stress of dislocation-free Si at high temperatures as a function of temperature. Dislocation-free CZ- and FZ-Si. Y1 (Yonenaga 1996), O1 (Omri et al. 1987), S (Siethoff et al. 1999). Yield strength (0.2% toughness) of polycrystalline Si is superimposed (Omri et al. 1985) 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 553 Fkp τð Þ ¼ 2Fk  μτb3h3=2π   , (4) μ is the shear modulus. Though the dislocation velocity increases linearly with the length of the moving dislocation L in Eq. (3), currently the velocity is considered to become length-independent at around 12 μm since the kink migration is considered to be impeded by some localized obstacles on the mean separation L along the dislocation line (Maeda and Takeuchi 1996; Vanderschaeve et al. 2000). The dislocation can overcome the obstacle to go forward when a kink of opposite sign migrates to the location to annihilate the kinks. In such the case, L in Eq. (3) is replaced by L. Here, it should be noted that Eq. (3) corresponds to the so-called kink-collisionless case. In a kink-collision case where the kink collides and annihilates another kink of the opposite sign generated on the same line, Eq. (3) is given as v ¼ 2b2h2νD=kT   τ exp  Fkp=2 þ W m   =kT   : (5) However, this case has not been reported experimentally up to now. Equation (3) has a form similar to the experimentally determined one given by Eq. (1) with respect to the dependence of the dislocation velocity on the stress and the temperature. The activation energy Q in Eq. (1) is the sum of Fkp and Wm in Eq. (3). Fkp depends on the stress τ and may lead to the observed reduction of Q under the high stress at low temperatures in Fig. 5 and Table 2. This also explains the observed feature that the stress exponent m is experimentally observed to be higher than 1, especially under high stress at low temperature as seen in Fig. 5 and Table 2, though dislocation velocity is expected to be proportional to the stress, i.e., m = 1 in the Hirth-Lothe model. Distinguished determinations of activation energies of Fkp and Wm are limited in in situ stressing experiments using a TEM, as shown in Table 4 (Louchet et al. 1993; Kolar et al. 1996). As noted in section Dislocation Structures, a dislocation on the glide-set plane (glide-set) is extended into two Shockley partial dislocations bounding a ribbon of intrinsic stacking fault. A partial dislocation operates according to the kink diffusion mechanism, as in the case of a perfect dislocation, where b in Eq. (3) should be replaced by bp of the magnitude of the Burgers vector of a partial Table 4 Magnitudes of Fk and Wm for dislocations in Si evaluated experimentally and theoretically Groups Dislocation type Fk (eV) Wm (eV) Experiments Louchet et al. (1993) Glide set 60 0.9 1.3 Kolar et al. (1996) Glide set 90 0.73 1.24 Calculations Cai et al. (2000) Glide-set screw 3030 0.7 1.2 Pizzagalli and Beauchamp (2008) Glide set 30 0.8 1.24 Pizzagalli and Beauchamp (2008) Shufﬂe-set screw 1.13 0.09 554 I. Yonenaga dislocation (=b/3). Activation energies Fk and Wm for partial dislocations are shown in Table 4, reported by high-resolution TEM observations (Kolar et al. 1996). As seen in Table 4, activation energies Fk and Wm for glide-set dislocations or partial dislocations are sufﬁciently ﬁtted to those derived theoretically (Cai et al. 2000; Pizzagalli and Beauchamp 2008). The partial dislocations move in correlation with each other and with the connecting stacking fault. Indeed, Cai et al. (2000) derived pronounced effects of intrinsic coupling of the dissociated partials of a screw dislocation with kinetic Monte Carlo simulations and evaluated dislocation veloci- ties, consistent with experimentally observed velocities. Simulated activation ener- gies of Fk and Wm for a shufﬂe-set screw dislocation are shown in Table 4. It is remarkable that Wm is very small, though up to now there have been no experimental reports on Fk and Wm for shufﬂe-set dislocations. Here, many groups, especially the Bulatov group and Pizzagalli group, have reported a huge number of theoretical evaluations of Fk and Wm of partial dislocations or kinks (Bulatov et al. 2001; Pizzagalli 2016). Dislocation Dynamics in Deformation In the temperature range above the break at around 400 C, the macroscopic deformation of various semiconductor crystals is rate-controlled by the collective motion of dislocations known as the Alexander-Haasen-Sumino model (Alexan- der and Haasen 1968; Yonenaga and Sumino 1978; Suezawa et al. 1979; Alex- ander 1986; Sumino 1994). The ﬂow stress τa for deformation of a crystal is the stress needed to move dislocations within the crystal at a certain velocity that is determined by the strain rate and the density of dislocations in motion. The stress consists of two components: one is the effective stress τeff for motion against the Peierls potential and the other is the internal stress τi which is the component which overcomes the resistance originating from the interaction between dislocations, τa ¼ τeff þ τi, (6) τi ¼ μbN=β, (7) τeff ¼ τa  μbN=β, (8) where N is the density of moving dislocations in the crystal and β is an interaction parameter on the order of 34. All dislocations are assumed to be mobile in the initial stage of deformation considered here. In plastic deformation under a constant strain rate, the strain rate _e apparently given by the experimental instrument is the sum of the elastic strain rate _eel and the plastic strain rate _epl. The plastic strain rate _epl is given as the product of the velocity v and density of moving dislocations N: 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 555 _e ¼ _eel þ _epl, (9) _epl ¼ Nbv: (10) The dislocation velocity in the model is given according to Eq. (1) as v ¼ v0 τeff=τ0 ð Þm exp Q=kT ð Þ ¼ v0 τa  μbN=β   =τ0  m exp Q=kT ð Þ, τ0 ¼ 1 MPa: (11) Thus, the ﬂow stress τa is given as follows: τa ¼ τ0 _epl=vob  1=mN1=m exp Q=mkT ð Þ þ μbN=β: (12) After starting deformation by applying stress under a given strain rate, N increases through self-multiplication proportional to τeff and the crystal passes through two points of stress-strain curve where the stress is constant, and thus _eel = 0; these are the upper and lower yield points. After the ﬁrst point, the stress decreases due to _eel  0, and _epl (=Nvb) becomes a maximum higher than _e. This is the so-called yield drop. Then, an increasing rate of N induces to the reduction of _epl according to Eqs. (1) and (8). When a decrease of _epl is initiated after the maximum, _epl approaches the given _e. Thus, at the lower yield point, the crystal reaches a certain kind of steady state of plastic deformation under the given condition of strain rate and temperature with minimum stress. The lower yield stress τy is given by minimizing Eq. (12) with respect to N at _epl = _e as follows: τy ¼ C _e=vob ð Þ1= mþ2 ð Þ exp Q= m þ 2 ð ÞkT ð Þ, (13) C ¼ m þ 2 ð Þ μb=β ð Þ2 τ0=m ð Þm=4vob h i1= mþ2 ð Þ : (14) Here, when a crystal contains a sufﬁciently high density of dislocations in the initial deformation, there is no appearance of the ﬁrst (upper) yield point. Dislocation density approaches that at the (lower) yield point, i.e., without a yield drop phenomenon. Now, it has been veriﬁed that the constants m and Q in Eq. (1) have the following relations with n and U in Eq. (2): m ¼ n  2, Q ¼ U  n: (15) Indeed, the values shown in Tables 2 and 3 well follow the above relations. A more accurate discussion, including immobilized dislocations during plastic deformation, is given in the paper by Sumino and Yonenaga (1993). Recently, Cochard et al. (2013) have successfully developed a constitutive approach to simulate stress-strain behavior of Si crystals based on the AHS model. On the other hand, a mechanism 556 I. Yonenaga determining the yield strength in the low-temperature regime has not yet been clariﬁed. Controversy of Shuffle- or Glide-Set Dislocations As noted in section Plastic Deformation and Yield Strength, the temperature dependence of yield strength drastically changes in the two regimes. The involve- ment of this feature was also considered in the dislocation mechanism rate- controlling the deformation, especially in the low-temperature regime, and brought the so-called shufﬂe-glide controversy on the core structure of dislocations (Duesbery and Joós 1996; Suzuki et al. 1999). From many observations by weak-beam and high-resolution TEM of deformed samples, it is widely accepted that almost all dislocations induced at high tempera- tures are dissociated into two Shockley partial dislocations bounding a ribbon of stacking fault (Ray and Cockayne 1971; Sato et al. 1980; Ohno et al. 2010). That is, glide-set dislocations move easily and control plastic deformation in the high- temperature regime. Indeed, Kolar et al. (1996) demonstrated paired partial disloca- tions with double kinks by plan-view high-resolution TEM. In the low-temperature regime, the Rabier group reported the existence of perfect, straight, zig-zag, or wavy dislocations in Si deformed at RT and 150 C and at high stress of 1 GPa under a conﬁning pressure (Rabier et al. 2001, 2010). Dislocations lie not only along the usual 110 Peierls valleys but also along unusual 112 and 123 Peierls valleys. The Saka group observed by TEM that perfect disloca- tions were nucleated by indentation tests and thermal stress at temperatures up to 500 C, and that the dislocations transformed into a dissociated form of glide-set by subsequent annealing at 400500 C (Saka et al. 2006; Izumi et al. 2010; Okuno and Saka 2013). These results suggest that a shufﬂe-set dislocation is nucleated and moves in the low-temperature regime at high stress under a conﬁning pressure. However, it should be remembered that Korte et al. (2011) observed weakly disso- ciated screw dislocations in a micro-pillar deformed at 100 C under atmospheric pressure. Also, Küsters and Alexander (1983) showed widely extended dislocations in a specimen moved at 325422 C under a stress of 294 MPa. It notes that the dislocations were introduced in advance by prestressing at higher temperature in their experiment. Some theoretical approaches with ab initio calculation derived that a shufﬂe-set dislocation is favorable under high stress (Godet et al. 2009; Shima et al. 2010). The activation energy for nucleation of a shufﬂe-set dislocation is lower than that of a glide-set one under a stress above 4 GPa (Shima et al. 2010). This also suggests that a glide-set dislocation is dominant at elevated temperatures since the stress for dislo- cation generation and motion is much lower than the value. In the intermediate- temperature regime, there may be a transient deformation mode as glide of mobile partial dislocations, leading twins (Yasutake et al. 1987; Pirouz et al. 1999; Takeuchi 2004). Transformation of dislocations from shufﬂe-set to glide-set is being modeled by several research groups (Rabier 2013; Li and Picu 2013; Rodney et al. 2017). 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 557 Modeling of dislocation core structures is being conducted intensively by Pizzagalli group (Pizzagalli 2016; Rodney et al. 2017). Impurity Effects on Dislocation Activities Establishing knowledge on dislocation-impurity interaction is important from both the fundamental and practical viewpoints for development of semiconductor tech- nology. In CZ-Si, oxygen (O) and nitrogen (N) impurities are well known to have a strong effect on dislocation immobilization due to preferential segregation (Sumino and Yonenaga 1994, 2002; Yonenaga and Sumino 1996; Yonenaga 2005a), and the ﬁndings are widely used as basic knowledge in Si crystal growth and device fabrication process. In recent advanced Si technology, wafers prepared from large-diameter crystals heavily doped with electrical impurities are used as substrate for the epitaxial growth of clean materials without grown-in defects. Critical Stress for Dislocation Generation Dislocations are easily generated from the surface ﬂaws in high-purity or nominally non-doped semiconductors even under extremely low stresses at high temperatures. However, in a semiconductor doped with certain kinds of impurities, there is a critical stress below which no dislocation generation takes place even though the ﬂaw accompanies a dislocated micro-region. Making use of intentionally introduced surface ﬂaws such as indentations or scratches, the investigation on how various kinds of impurities affect the generation process of dislocations in different kinds of semiconductors was performed (Yonenaga et al. 2001, 2003; Yonenaga 2005a, b). Figure 8 shows the distance traveled by the leading 60 dislocation in an array of dislocations that are generated from a scratch plotted against the resolved shear stress for various Si crystals. No appreciable critical stress is measured for dislocation generation in high-purity FZ-Si, whereas a certain critical stress exists for the generation of dislocations in high-purity (O-containing), B-doped, and Ge-doped CZ-Si. The magnitude of the critical stress is 7 MPa in high-purity and Ge-doped CZ-Si. On the other hand, the critical stress is as high as 13 MPa in B-doped CZ Si. Once the stress exceeds the critical stress for dislocation generation, the travel distance in the high-purity, B-doped, and Ge-doped CZ-Si increases rapidly with stress. In such cases, the travel distance versus stress relationship usually shows a break at some high stress; beyond which the travel distance increases with respect to stress at approximately the same rate as that found for high-purity FZ-Si. At high stress, the travel distance versus stress relationship for high-purity CZ-Si almost overlaps with that of high-purity FZ-Si. The travel distance of dislocations in B-doped and Ge-doped CZ-Si is larger than that in high-purity FZ-Si. The critical stress for dislocation generation from a surface scratch, termed gener- ation stress τc, hereafter, depends on the stressing temperature. Figure 9 shows the generation stresses of dislocations in conventional CZ-Si (i.e., O-containing Si) and 558 I. Yonenaga nitrogen (N)-doped Si crystals as a function of temperature. In the N-free FZ-Si, dislocations are generated even under a stress lower than 1 MPa at temperatures up to 900 C. In N-free CZ-Si, the generation stress of dislocations increases with increasing temperature from 3 MPa at low temperatures to 8 MPa in the high- temperature range of 750900 C. In the N-doped CZ-Si, the generation stress is high or becomes high in the temperature range lower than that in N-free CZ-Si and then decreases gradually as the temperature increases. The higher the generation stress, the higher the concentration of involved N impurity in the CZ-Si crystals. At temperatures higher than 900 C, the generation stress of dislocations is lower in the N-doped CZ-Si Fig. 8 Travel distance of leading 60 dislocations generated from a scratch during a 10 min stress pulse at 800 C in various Si crystals plotted against stress. Numerals show the impurity concentration in the crystals Fig. 9 Temperature dependence of the critical stress for generation of 60 dislocations in various Si crystals. Numerals show the impurity concentration in the crystals. The dotted black line shows temperature dependence of the critical stress for N-free FZ-Si 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 559 crystals than in the N-free CZ-Si. Generation stress is almost constant at about 3 MPa in the N-doped FZ-Si in the whole temperature range investigated. Thus, N impurity has an enhanced effect on the suppression of dislocation generation in cooperation with O impurity in Si at temperatures of 650900 C (Yonenaga 2005a). Figure 10 shows the dependence of the critical stress for dislocation generation at 800 C on the concentration of doped impurities in CZ-Si crystals. Data for various- concentrations of O impurity are also included in the ﬁgure. The critical stress increases with increasing O concentration and becomes 8 MPa at about 1018 cm3, the standard level of O concentration in CZ-Si. The critical stress starts to increase remarkably when B, P, and As concentrations exceed 1  1019 cm3. This means that B, P, and As impurities at concentrations higher than  1  1019 cm3 effec- tively suppress the generation of dislocations. Thus, the critical stress for dislocation generation observed within crystals doped with concentrations of B, P, and As impurities less than 1  1019 cm3 can be understood to be mainly due to the effect of O impurity. B and P impurities in FZ-Si have also been found to suppress dislocation generation (Yonenaga 2004). However, the critical stresses for dislocation generation in FZ-Si are lower than those in CZ-Si. The suppression of dislocation generation by Sb impurity is not clear because its solubility limit into Si is lower than those of B, P, and As impurities. In Ge-doped Si, the magnitude of the critical stress for dislocation generation is 8 MPa, i.e., the same as the critical stress for high-purity CZ-Si, and increases slightly to 10 MPa when the Ge concentration exceeds 1020 cm3. However, Ge impurity even at a high concentration of 2.5  1020 cm3 is not effective for suppression of dislocation generation. Indeed, in the dilute SiGe alloys with Ge content of 0. 4 at%, strong suppression of dislocation generation has not been observed (Yonenaga 2005c). Contrarily, in (Ge +B) co-doped CZ-Si, the critical stress of dislocation generation is higher than that in Si independently doped with either B or Ge. This shows the effect of (Ge +B) co-doping effect on the suppression of dislocation generation, though such effect is weaker than that observed at 800 C (Yonenaga et al. 2003). In N-doped CZ-Si, the critical stress for dislocation generation is 9 MPa, somewhat higher than that in high-purity CZ-Si. Fig. 10 Variation in the critical stress for generation of 60 dislocations at 800 C against the concentration of O, N, B, P, As, Sb, Ga, and Ge impurities in CZ- or FZ-Si crystals. The bar denotes the critical stress in Ge and B co-doped Si at concentrations of 4  1019 and 9  1018 cm3, respectively. The solid and open marks CZ- and FZ-Si, respectively 560 I. Yonenaga Dislocation Immobilization Suppression of dislocation generation from a scratch or surface ﬂaw under low stress has been observed for dislocations in Si (Sumino and Harada 1981; Sumino and Imai 1983; Sumino et al. 1983; Sato and Sumino 1985; Sumino and Yonenaga 2002; Jurkschat et al. 2001; Yonenaga and Sumino 1996; Yonenaga et al. 2001, 2003; Yonenaga 2004) doped with certain kinds of impurity. Dislocations are nucleated around a scratch/surface ﬂaw and immobilized due to the impurity segregation along the dislocations even while the crystal is being heated to the test temperature (Sumino and Yonenaga 2002; Yonenaga 2005a). That is, the observed critical stress for dislocation generation from a scratch can be understood as the stress required to initiate dislocation motion from the immobilized state and to penetrate the matrix crystal, which can be detected macroscopically as dislocation generation from the scratch (Fig. 11). This stress is termed release stress τR. The characteristic features of dislocation-impurity interaction can be evaluated through the analysis of the stressing temperature dependence of the release stress of aged dislocations. Figure 12 shows the release stress for dislocations in various Si crystals aged at 900 C for 15 min plotted against the stressing temperature. The release stress decreases linearly with an increase in the stressing temperature, impurity segregation Stress release process from the state Fig. 11 A model of macroscopically observed dislocation generation inﬂuenced by impurity segregation Fig. 12 Stressing temperature dependence of release stress τR for dislocations aged at 900 C for 15 min in various types of CZ-Si 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 561 showing that the process is thermally activated. A theory of the thermally activated release of dislocations from locking agents gives the following relation between the release stress τR and the temperature T: τR ¼ E  kT ln LNν=Γ ð Þ ½ Nb2, (16) where E is the maximum interaction energy between a dislocation and a locking agent, L the length of the dislocation, N the mean density of locking agents along the dislocation line, ν the vibration frequency of the dislocation, and Γ the release rate of the locked dislocation (Sumino and Imai 1983; Sato and Sumino 1985; Sumino and Yonenaga 2002; Yonenaga 2004). By using Eq. (16), the density of the pinning agents along the dislocation line N and the interaction energy E in the crystals were evaluated as shown in Table 5. The experimentally estimated magnitudes of interaction energy E are 34 eV, too high to be interpreted with a model in which the dislocations interact elastically with individual impurity atoms. The magnitudes of line density N are 13  105 cm1, much smaller than that expected from the concentration of the impurity atoms individually dispersed in the matrix. This result indicates the following image: impurity atoms dispersed within the matrix segregate at dislocations at rest and pipe diffuse along the dislocation line, meeting and coagulating at some discretely separated sites on the dislocation line. As a result, the dislocations are locked/ immobilized by such complexes or clusters, which may include a few impurity atoms, intrinsic point defects, or O atoms in CZ-Si. Indeed, agglomerates were detected along a dissociated dislocation in P-doped Si annealed for a prolonged duration as seen in Fig. 13. Radial strain ﬁelds about 10 nm in diameter were observed nearby the partial dislocations, and it was known by means of the energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX) that the agglomerates are P-based. Table 5 means that B and N impurities have larger interaction energy E and lower density N than O, Ge, As, and P impurities, which implies that B and N impurities contribute to the prompt formation/development of stronger locking agents with lower density along dislocations. In contrast, P and As impurities are known to form a high density of locking agents, resulting in high release stress. The magnitudes of the release stress and E and N in Ge-doped CZ-Si are comparable to those in high- purity CZ-Si. This supports the experimental result in Fig. 10 that Ge impurity even at a high concentration of 2.5  1020 cm3 does not suppress dislocation generation and conﬁrms that Ge has no effect on dislocation immobilization. In P-doped CZ-Si, Table 5 Magnitudes of E and N for dislocations in the impurity-doped CZ-Si crystals Impurity concentration (cm3) E (eV) N (cm1) O 1  1018 3.6 2.4  105 N 6  1015 4.1 1.0  105 P 3  1019 3.6 3.4  105 As 4  1019 3.7 2.8  105 B 9  1019 4.5 1.1  105 Ge 9  1019 3.6 2.6  105 562 I. Yonenaga the density N is higher than that in P-doped FZ-Si, which suggests that a combination of a P atom with an O atom leads to the formation of locking agents with higher density along a dislocation line than in the case of an individual P atom. Similarly, in (Ge +B) co-doped Si, the interaction energy E is slightly higher, and the density N is lower than that in high-purity CZ-Si. Strong locking agents are probably constructed in cooperation with Ge and B atoms, resulting in the immobilization of dislocations. These features indicate that a unique reaction of impurities occurs at a dislocation site. It should note that oxygen precipitation might be affected or suppressed in CZ-Si heavily doped with electrically active impurities in comparison to the well- known observations in conventional CZ-Si. By theoretical approaches with ab initio calculation, Heggie et al. (1993) indi- cated the preferential occupation of certain impurities on a soliton site of the 90 partial dislocation, originating in elastic and strong chemical interactions, especially for group III and Vatoms, as seen in Table 6. Recently, Zirbarth et al. (2015) reported segregation of iron (Fe) atoms at various reconstructed dislocation cores as 30, 90 SP, and 90 DP (see section Dislocation Structures). Suzuki Effect Various impurities segregate on a dislocation (partial dislocations) in Si. Oxygen precipitates develop along a dissociated dislocation line with its climb as observed by TEM (Minowa et al. 1991; Yonenaga and Sumino 1996). In addition, it has been Fig. 13 A TEM image of a dissociated dislocation in P-doped Si annealed at 900 C for 10.5 h. Radial strain ﬁelds on partial dislocations show P-based agglomerates Table 6 Formation and pinning energies of various impurities on 90 partial dislocation. The location is given by superscripts; (b) a bulk site, (c) a core site, (s) a soliton site, (oc) an off-site. Numerals show energies in a unit of eV (Heggie et al. 1993) B P As O N Bb ! Bc+0.4 Pb ! Pc+0.4 Asb ! Asc+0.7 Ob ! Ooc+0.3 Nb ! Nc+0.6 Bb ! Bs+2.5 Pb ! Ps+2.3 Asb ! Ass+2.5 O2 b ! O2 c+2.5 Nb ! Ns +3.4 2Bb ! B2 c+2.2 2Pb ! P2 c+1.7 2Asb ! As2 c+2.1 2Ob ! O2 c+4.5 2Nb ! N2 c+2.6 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 563 found that the width of a stacking fault ribbon bound by a pair of partial dislocations in Si doped with certain kinds of dopants expanded with the annealing duration, which implies the reduction of the stacking fault energy γ due to the segregation of impurities (Ohno et al. 2009, 2010, 2012). This is known as Suzuki effect (Suzuki 1962) of the interaction of an impurity with a stacking fault. Figure 14 shows the variation of the stacking fault energy γ as a function of the maximum number of impurity atoms agglomerated nearby a unit length of dissociated dislocations via their thermal migration N (Ohno et al. 2012). Here, N is deﬁned as N = πDatanca for an atom; Da and ca are the diffusion constant and the concentration of an atom, respectively. For example, Da = 2.9  1015 cm2/s for Ga atoms at elevated temperature 1173 K. As seen in the ﬁgure, various Si crystals doped with impurities except B and Ge shows reduction and then saturation of the stacking fault energy γ. Remarkably, the variation of n-type Si, doped with P, As, or Sb, obeys a function of N irrespective of the n-type dopant species, while B- and Ge-doped Si shows no change of the energy against N. Ga-doped Si shows an intermediate feature of variation. This implies the small contribution of elastic interaction. Recently, Yama- moto et al. conducted ab initio calculations of the solution energy of heavily impurity-doped Si (Yamamoto et al. 2014). They conﬁrmed that segregations on/around the stacking fault of various impurities are governed by the solution energy differences of the location sites between the perfect lattice and stacking fault. The solution energy variation originates in the electronic structure changes near the bandgaps. According to the stacking fault energy variation with N, the interaction energy between a stacking fault and the n-type impurities is estimated to be 0.15 eV, comparable to that evaluated theoretically (Justo et al. 1999b). Dislocation Velocity The velocity of dislocations v in high-purity FZ-Si is described by Eq. (1) in a wide range from the stress as low as 2 MPa. On one hand, it is known that dislocation 0 10-1 100 101 102 103 104 105 N [nm-1] Ga non Sb P As g [mJ / m2] 50 60 70 Ｂ Ge Fig. 14 The apparent stacking fault energy γ vs the maximum number of dopant atoms that can agglomerate near by a unit length of dissociated dislocations N. The closed and open marks mean the data for CZ-Si and FZ-Si, respectively. (Ohno et al. 2012; Reused under permission of Elsevier) 564 I. Yonenaga motion in Si doped with light impurities as O or N is suppressed under such low stress due to immobilization by the impurities and is similar with that in high-purity Si under rather high stress (Sumino and Imai 1983; Sumino and Yonenaga 1992; Sumino et al. 1983; Yonenaga 2005a). As shown in Fig. 8, in Si doped with certain kinds of electrically active impurities, dislocation motion is suppressed under stress lower than the critical stress for dislocation generation. Once the stress exceeds the critical stress, dislocation velocity increases rapidly with stress and then shows a break, which depends on the impurity species and concentration. Such a rapid increase in the velocity is related to the dislocation generation/release process from the impurity-immobilized state. Beyond the break, the velocity increases rather slowly with an increase in the stress at a rate comparable to that of dislocations in high-purity FZ-Si. Figure 15 shows how the velocities of 60 dislocations at 700 C depend on the concentration of impurities in a semiquantitative manner. The veloc- ities of dislocations shown are those under a stress of 30 MPa where the measured velocities are thought to be free from the inﬂuence of impurity immobilization. It is seen that the velocity of dislocations in Si doped with donor impurities (P, As, Sb) increases with an increase in the concentration as reported previously (Imai and Sumino 1983; Sumino and Yonenaga 2002; Yonenaga 2004). Additionally, the dislocation velocity in Si doped with acceptor impurity B increases monotonically from that in high-purity Si with an increase in the B concentration (Yonenaga et al. 2001). Ge impurities have almost no effect on dislocation velocity enhancement/ reduction. In (Ge+B) co-doped Si the dislocation velocity at 700 C is somewhat lower than or comparable to that in high-purity Si (Yonenaga et al. 2003). Figure 16 shows the velocities of 60 dislocations in CZ-Si doped or co-doped with various impurities at various concentrations under a stress of 30 MPa plotted against the reciprocal temperatures. The dislocation velocity in motion was found to be unaffected by the doping of Si crystals with N and Ge impurities in the whole temperature range of 650950 C. In (Ge +B) co-doped CZ-Si, dislocations move with lower velocity than in undoped CZ-Si in the low-temperature range. (Ge +B) co-doping is probably effective at low temperatures. Contrarily, dislocations move far faster in P- and As-doped Si and slightly faster in B-doped than in undoped CZ-Si Fig. 15 Velocities of 60 dislocations in impurity- doped CZ-Si crystals under a shear stress of 30 MPa at 700 C: the dependence on the electrical type and concentration of main impurities. The ellipse denotes the result in Ge and B co-doped CZ-Si at concentrations of 4  1019 and 9  1018 cm3, respectively 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 565 at temperatures lower than about 800 C. The velocity of dislocations is described as the stress and temperature by Eq. (1). Table 7 shows the activation energy Q for the crystals. The velocity enhancement and weak temperature dependence in n-type crystals, i.e., reduction of the activation energy Q, are attributed to the electronic effect through the formation and/or migration of kinks on a dislocation as an elementary process of dislocation motion. An acceptor level is thought to be associated with a kink site in Si as proposed by Hirsch (1979) and Jones (1980). If the enhanced dislocation velocity detected in B-doped Si is related to such a mechanism, then a donor level may seem to be associated with a kink site in Si. Since the reduction amount of Q in the crystals in comparison with that of high-purity Si depends on the Fermi level of the crystals, it can be supposed that a 60 dislocation has an acceptor level and a donor level in the bandgap at 0.5 and 0.25 eV, respectively, above the valence band edge Ev. Indeed, the result well corresponds to the theoretical estimation of Ev+0.55 and 0.34 eV, respectively, derived by Heggie and Jones (1983). If a kink in the stable conﬁguration Fig. 16 Velocities of 60 dislocations in impurity- doped CZ-Si and high-purity FZ-Si crystals under a shear stress of 30 MPa against the reciprocal temperature. Numerals show the impurity concentration in a unit of cm3. GeB denotes the results for Ge and B co-doped CZ-Si at concentrations of 4  1019 and 9  1018 cm3, respectively Table 7 Magnitudes of Q for dislocations in the impurity-doped CZ-Si crystals Crystal Impurity concentration (cm3) Q (eV) High-purity FZ 2.35 Undoped CZ O: 1  1018 2.35 p-type CZ B: 2.0  1020 1.65 n-type CZ P: 1  1019 1.53 n-type CZ As: 4  1019 1.32 N-doped CZ N: 6  1015 2.3 566 I. Yonenaga accompanies such an acceptor (donor) level, the equilibrium concentration of kinks on the dislocation may increase in an n-type (p-type) crystal since the free energy of the system decreases if such acceptors (donors) accept electrons from chemically given donors (acceptors). On the other hand, if some acceptor (donor) level is associated with a kink in the saddle point conﬁguration of motion, the migration energy of a kink may be reduced and leads to a higher mobility of the kink. In both cases the velocity of the dislocation is enhanced. For a full understanding of the mechanism direct measurements of the kink velocity are indispensable. Surprisingly, even at temperatures higher than 800 C, the dislocation velocity in Si doped with B, P, and As impurities is larger than that of dislocations in undoped CZ-Si. Such enhancement of dislocation velocity observed in heavily impurity-doped Si may not be due to the above mechanism since a break of the temperature dependence of dislocation velocity in B-, P-, and As-doped Si is seen in Fig. 16. The kink conﬁguration of a dislocation is probably concerned with the elementary process of dislocation motion in heavily impurity-doped semiconduc- tors, where the doping level is extremely high, regarded as being in a rather dilute solid solution. Stimulated Dislocation Motion Recombination-Enhanced Dislocation Glides It is known that rapid degradation of optical devices and light-emitting diodes in compound semiconductors as GaAs takes place through enhanced dislocation glide by carrier injection into a crystal by forward biasing or by laser irradiation during device operation. The phenomenon is called the recombination- (or radiation) enhanced dislocation glide (REDG) (Maeda and Takeuchi 1996). The REDG effect can often lead to softening of the strength in the macroscopic plasticity, called as photoplastic effect. Figure 17 shows dislocation velocities measured under ﬁxed stresses in the dark and under various kinds of excitation plotted against temperature. The enhancement of dislocation velocity takes place only during excitation at low temperatures but not at high temperatures. The dislocation velocity v under excitation is described as a function of temperature and excitation intensity I by the following empirical equation: v ¼ v1 exp Q=kT ð Þ þ v2 I=I0 ð Þ exp  Q  ΔQ=kT ð Þ ½ : (17) The velocity equation under excitation is represented by the sum of the usual thermal activation term and an enhancement term that is also described with an Arrhenius- type equation with the reduced activation energy and with a pre-exponential factor proportional to the excitation intensity. The latter term dominates at low tempera- tures, while the former controls the velocity at high temperatures. 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 567 The REDG effect is well interpreted by the so-called phonon-kick mechanism of defect migration that was originally proposed to explain annealing of point defects enhanced by irradiation (Weeks et al. 1975). It is assumed that the defect concerned has some electronic level within the bandgap of the crystal (see section Electrical and Optical Properties of Dislocations). An injected minority carrier is ﬁrst captured at the defect, and the non-radiative electron-hole recombination process is completed on subsequently capturing a majority carrier there. The electronic energy released during the capture process of carriers is converted to the lattice vibration of the defect system and then distributed to a speciﬁc vibrational mode to lead to defect motion. The defect migration rate Ktotal is given by Ktotal ¼ Kth exp Qth=kT ð Þ þ ηKrexp  Qth  δQ=kT ð Þ ½ , (18) where Kr is the recombination rate, η is the efﬁciency factor (η  1), and δQ is the energy released during the carrier capture at the defect. The ﬁrst term shows the rate of the process when there is the thermal activation with activation energy Qth and prefactor Kth and the second term is that related to the recombination process. Kr is 700 500 300 10-5 1.2 1.4 1.6 103/T (K-1) 1.8 1.0 ) s / m ( y ti c o l e v n o it a c o l s i D 900 10-10 Imai-Sumino HVEM Werner et al. Light-illumination Küsters-Alexander e-irradiation Maeda et al. T (C) Fig. 17 The temperature dependencies of dislocation velocity under various stimulations and in the dark in Si. Black solid line, under electron irradiation in in situ measurements with high-voltage electron microscopy (HVEM) (Werner et al. 1995); blue solid line, under light illumination (Küsters and Alexander 1983); red solid line, under electron irradiation in scanning electron microscopy (Maeda et al. 1987). Dotted lines: without stimulation in Si (Imai and Sumino 1983) and respective studies 568 I. Yonenaga proportional to the intensity I of irradiation at a low injection level. Thus, Eq. (17) is essentially same as Eq. (18), meaning that the physics contained in the recombination-enhanced defect motion also hold in REDG. Phonons emitted on recombination process at dislocation sites contribute to the activation process for the dislocation glide through the double-kink formation and/or the kink migration discussed in section Hirth-Lothe Kink Diffusion Model. Hydrogen-Enhanced Dislocation Glides Irradiation of hydrogen plasma affects the dislocation glide in Si (Yamashita et al. 1999). As seen in Fig. 18, the velocity of 60 dislocation is remarkably enhanced by the hydrogen plasma irradiation in the temperature range between 400 and 500 C but not at higher temperatures. The activation energy Q was evaluated to be 1.2 eV under the hydrogen plasma, lower than 2.2 eV in the hydrogen-free condition. Pretreatment of hydrogenation was shown to play an essential role for occurrence of the effect. The phenomenon was evidenced to be due to the hydrogen atoms incorporated into the specimens and currently interpreted that hydrogen atoms act as a catalytic agent in the kink migration process or that hydrogen atoms form EH-plasma=1.2 eV Edark=1.2 eV Under H-plasma after pre-hydrogenation (540C) Under H-plasma after pre-hydrogenation (470C) In dark 600 500 400 1.2 1.4 1.6 10-6 10-8 10-10 103/T (K-1) ) s / m ( y ti c o l e v n o it a c o l s i D T (C) Fig. 18 The temperature dependencies of dislocation velocity in dark and under hydrogen plasma pretreated at 540 C and 470 C. (Drawn under permission of Prof. Yamashita) 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 569 complexes with kinks or solitons, lowering their formation energy (see section Dislocation Dynamics in Deformation). Fracture Fracture Toughness Si is known as a typical brittle solid (see a general review of the concepts and terminology of fracture mechanics of brittle materials by B.R. Lawn (1993)). Fracture of a Si crystal takes place due to cleavage along the certain crystallographic plane, i.e., (111), (110), and (100) in Si. The strength of such a brittle crystal at low temperatures is governed by the presence and/or appearance of cracks or notches that operate as an initiation site of cleavage. Fracture toughness (stress intensity factor) KIC is the minimum toughness of a material in the presence of a stress concentration such as a crack or notch. At RT, KIC is 0.621.22, 0.681.19, and 0.751.29 MPa m1/2 for {111}, {110}, and {100}, respectively (Yonenaga 1998; Masolin et al. 2013). Fracture toughness KIC, dependent on the crystallographic plane (hkl) and direction [hkl], is related to the surface energy γ for fracture: γ hkl ð Þ ¼ 1=2 ð ÞKIC hkl ð Þ 2 1  ν2   =E hkl ½    , (19) where ν is the Poisson ratio and E is the Youngs modulus. γ is estimated to be 1.242.70, 1.812.25, and 1.90 J/m2 for {111}, {110}, and {100}, respectively, in experiments by various groups (Hayashi et al. 1992; Yonenaga 1998; Masolin et al. 2013). KIC is 1 MPa m1/2 for polycrystalline Si (Chasiotis et al. 2006). Fracture stress σF is related to the critical crack length c and fracture toughness KIC as represented by the following equation: σF ¼ KIC= πc ð Þ1=2: (20) Fracture strength depends on the surface state of samples. Some groups using a specially designed testing jig free from edge effects have reported that fracture stress of a ﬂoat-zone grown Si wafer normally prepared by chemical polishing was 3.7 GPa at RT (Stepanov and Shpeizman 1981; Hu 1982; McLaughlin and Willoughby 1987), whereas the fracture strength reached up to 8.8 GPa after the surface removal of 166 μm (Johansson et al. 1989), which is close to the ideal strength 13.7 GPa. If the abovementioned σF = 8.8 GPa is adopted, according to Eq. (20) the critical crack length c can be estimated to be 3 nm, which shows the sensitivity of a fracture to extremely shallow surface cracks. Indeed, surface treatments, such as chemical polishing, lapping, implantation, and annealing in various environments, affect the fracture strength of Si (Hu 1982; McLaughlin and Willoughby 1987; Johansson et al. 1989). By lapping with diamond paste or by surface coating with TiN thin ﬁlm, σF decreases to 0.5 GPa, while by annealing in H or O ambient or by ion implantation, σF is enhanced to 3 GPa. Details can be seen in Fig. 5 in the article (Yonenaga 1998). 570 I. Yonenaga In the recent ﬁndings, fracture strength strongly depends on the sample size (thickness) and easily exceeds 1 GPa for wafers, whiskers, and rods with a diameter of about 50 μm or less (Kizuka et al. 2005; Gerberich et al. 2009). As a pioneering work, Johansson et al. (1988) reported elastic bending of micro-cantilever beam specimens of 1020 μm in thickness in in situ observation of fracture bending using scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and obtained fracture strength of 48 GPa. Gerberich et al. (2009) claimed an increase in KIC with micron- and nano-sizing of Si crystals at RT. Clariﬁcation for these phenomena based on dislocation or plasticity mechanism is expected in the future. Brittle-to-Ductile Transition Si is brittle at low temperatures where fracture takes place with no signs of plastic deformation. With increasing temperature, Si becomes ductile and deforms plastically before the occurrence of fracture, as brittle-to-ductile transition at TBDT (St. John 1975; Samuels and Roberts 1989; Hirsch and Roberts 1991; Brede 1993). As seen in Fig. 19 (Yonenaga 2015), KIC for bulk Si samples with a notch or an indention impression shows a sharp increase suddenly at TBDT and then a decrease with increasing temper- ature. KIC and TBDT depend on the testing method, stressing rate, impurity doping level, and especially the sample size (Hirsch and Roberts 1991). TBDT is around 550800 C for bulk samples having a bending or cantilever form, strongly dependent on a strain rate. Figure 20 summarizes the strain-rate sensitivity of TBDT described in the form of _KIC. _KIC is the increase rate of the fracture toughness KIC in a constant strain rate test (St John 1975). TBDT is given by the following equation: St. John Samuels Nakao 4 3 2 1 00 500 T (C) K IC (MPa m 1/2) 1000 Fig. 19 Fracture toughness KIC of the (110) plane of Si as a function of temperature. St. John, tension of tapered double cantilever beam Si (St. John 1975); Samuels, bending of indented Si (Samuels and Roberts 1989); Nakao, tension of notched micrometer-sized membrane Si (Nakao et al. 2008). Open and solid symbols show apparent brittle cleavage and ductile failure. (Yonenaga 2015; Reused under permission of Elsevier) 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 571 _KIC ¼ A exp QBDT=kTc ð Þ, (21) where A is a constant and QBDT is the activation energy for the brittle-to-ductile transition. QBDT are measured to be around 2.2 eV in intrinsic Si and 1.6 eV for n-type Si, comparable to the activation energies of dislocation glide in the crystal types. Donor impurities decrease the TBDT and increase the KIC, probably due to the enhancement of dislocation activities. O impurity leads to the increase of TBDT by 40 K with the slight increase of QBDT, probably connected to a dislocation immobi- lization associated with dissolved O atoms (Michot 1988). Plasma hydrogenation lowers TBDT by 60 K and QBDT by 0.8 eV and connects with a hydrogen-induced increase in dislocation mobility in Si (Zhang and Haasen 1989), as discussed in section Hydrogen-Enhanced Dislocation Glides (Yamashita et al. 1999). Thus, it is known that the brittle-to-ductile transition is closely controlled by dislocation activities. As seen in Fig. 19, micrometer-sized membrane samples with a notch have TBDT as low as 70 C, where KIC increases modestly and then maintains the magnitude or decreases slightly (Nakao et al. 2008). The increase in KIC around TBDT is considered to be due to crack shielding or blunting through dislocation emission from the crack tip of a notch or impression (Brede 1993; Michot et al. 1994; Tanaka and Higashida 2004). Dislocations emitted from the crack front relax the stress concentration there, which leads to ductility as seen in Fig. 21 (Tanaka and Higashida 2004). At elevated temperatures the emitted dislocations can move easily and multiply, leading to ductile features with a decrease of the stress or KIC. In the small samples, dislocations may be emitted under extremely high stress and remain around the crack due to low mobility, which leads to high resistivity against crack expansion in the low-temperature region. Indeed, Nakao et al. (2008) reported the activation of some number of dislocations around a notch. Recently, Huang et al. (2009) pointed out the possibility of energetic preference of amorphization at a crack tip under stress. 0.8 1.0 1.2 103/TC (K-1) 800 1000 600 TC (C) 105 104 103 102 KIC (Pam/s)  M-G CZ M-G FZ SJ CZ B FP S-R FP S-R FZ Z-H CP: H Fig. 20 Brittle-ductile transition temperatures (Tc) at various stress intensity factor rates in Si. SJ CZ (St. John 1975), M-G FZ (Michot 1988), M-G CZ (Michot 1988), S-R FZ (Samuels and Roberts 1989), S-R FP (Samuels and Roberts 1989), Z-H CP: H (Zhang and Haasen 1989), B FP (Brede 1993). CZ, undoped CZ; FZ, undoped FZ; FP, P-doped FZ; CP: H, hydrogenated. Bar-type symbols show data by bending of pre-indented samples while other symbols by tensile of double cantilever beam samples 572 I. Yonenaga Electrical and Optical Properties of Dislocations Electrical Characters Dislocations are a linear defect, which can act as a one-dimensional (1D) nanostructure in the current understanding, and their dangling bonds lead to electronic states into the bandgap. Thus, one-dimensional (1D) electronic energy bands can be expected along intrinsic dislocations, such as an essential quantum wire. Such electronic states may cause preferential recombination of electron-hole pairs to change the electrical properties. Indeed, spiral dislocation loops have been observed as a dark line, meaning that dislocations act non-radiatively, in an electron beam-induced current (EBIC) image in Si as seen in Fig. 22 (Kusanagi et al. 1992). From the beginning decades of semiconductor science and technology, many efforts have been conducted to clarify electrical properties of dislocations in crystals by a variety of research methods. Hall effects observed dislocation levels at Ev+0.17, +0.27, and Ec0.4 eV in deformed Si (Grazhulis et al. 1977; Eremenko et al. 1977). Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) is powerful to identify for determining the Fig. 21 Dislocation loops emitted from a crack. (Tanaka and Higashida 2004; Reused under permission of Oxford University Press) 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 573 density and structural symmetry of EPR-active sites along the dislocation lines and, indeed, found several lines characteristic as Si-K1, K2, and so on, relating to dislocation dangling bonds (Grazhulis et al. 1981; Suezawa et al. 1981; Kveder et al. 1982; Weber and Alexander 1983; Alexander et al. 1983). Especially, evalu- ations of the density of paramagnetic dangling bonds by EPR evidenced the exis- tence of reconstruction along dislocations (see section Dislocation Structures). A major problem in such investigations is the fact that the signals or data may originate in any defects generated by plastic deformation, i.e., not only intrinsic dislocations of different types, kinks, and jogs, but also other products as point defects, point-defect clusters, complexes of dislocation and point-defect, clusters of dislocation and impurity, and so forth. Typically trail defects were found (Bondarenko et al. 1986; Khorosheva et al. 2015). Thus, it is very hard to identify and relate particular signals or data to intrinsic dislocation dangling bonds due to ambiguities in interpretations. Here, we brieﬂy summarize electrical and optical properties of dislocation states with intrinsic natures. Comprehensive reviews on such dislocation-related properties in Si can be found elsewhere (Schröter and Cerva 2002). Model of Electronic Structures of Dislocations Based on experiments of plastically deformed Si crystals, two representative models of an electronic state of dislocations in the bandgap were proposed in the early decades: one is a discrete level of acceptor type (Read 1954), and the other is a one-dimensional partially ﬁlled band, amphoteric as an acceptor or a donor (Shock- ley 1953; Schröter and Labusch 1969). In both models, the dislocation electronic state accompanies a long-range screening such as a charge cylinder (so-called Read cylinder) and occupation statistics in the presence of the macroscopic Coulomb band bending formed around the dislocation. Fig. 22 EBIC image of hexagonal dislocation loops in Si observed at 100 K. (Kusanagi et al. 1992; Reused under permission of American Institute of Physics) 574 I. Yonenaga Currently, the following model is widely accepted: Fig. 23a illustrates the energy diagram for a glide 60 dislocation in Si, showing shallow one-dimensional states and deep localized states (Kveder and Kittler 2008). As previously discussed, 60 and screw dislocations induced by deformation at elevated temperatures higher than around 600 C are in the glide-set. They are dissociated into 90 and 30 Shockley partial dislocations connected by a stacking fault, and the partial dislocation cores are reconstructed. In these situations, such dislocations were predicted theoretically not to accompany deep electronic states in the bandgap. Alternatively, clean and straight segments of the dislocation produce shallow one-dimensional electronic energy bands (1D bands) caused by the lattice deformation (elastic strain ﬁeld) and a ﬁlled band (quasi-2D band) by the stacking fault (see for review by Schröter and Cerva 2002). The empty band De has energy levels centered around at EcEDe below the conduction band bottom, while the occupied band Dh centered at Ev+EDh above the valence band top, where Ec and Ev denote the edges of the conduction and valence band, respectively. Here, it may note that the tails of De and Dh bands spread into the conduction and valence band, respectively, as seen in Fig. 23a. In the recent studies, (EcEDe)60 meV and (EDh Ev)70 meV are reported experimentally (Castaldini et al. 2005). Besides the 1D bands, deep localized electronic states DD, point-like (zero dimensional, 0D), are produced. The DD states of EDD originate in some intrinsic core defects and/or irregularities at the dislocation such as reconstruction defects (solitons) and jogs, core defects caused by incorporation of vacancies or impurities, and impurities closely accumulated to dislocations by their elastic strain ﬁeld. Such impurities bound to dislocations or dislocation cores may show signiﬁcantly differ- ent energy levels from those in the bulk. Fig. 23 (a) Energy diagram for a glide 60 dislocation in Si. 1D bands originate in regular dislocation segments and DD deep localized states in some defects and irregularities on dislocation. (b) Carrier recombination at dislocations. For clean dislocations the recombination is governed by direct recombination of electrons and holes captured by the 1D dislocation bands EDe and EDh, and the carriers captured to 1D bands can recombine via the defect-related deep level EDD. (Drawn under permission of Prof. Kveder) 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 575 Recombination at Dislocations The electronic states at a dislocation capture free electron-hole according to occu- pation statistics. Such captured carriers create a Coulomb band-bending eϕ around it as seen in Fig. 23b, reducing the capture rate of free electrons to the states approx- imately by a factor exp (eϕ/kT). Thus, this potential limits the total equilibrium occupation of electrons to the states and, simultaneously, attracts minority carriers, resulting in acceleration of their capture and recombination at the dislocation. Exact evaluation of eϕ is rather difﬁcult and approximately given by the following formula (Schröter and Cerva 2002): eϕ ¼ e2N tot=2πee0   ln Ntot N tot=πnd ð Þ1=2 h i  0:5 n o , (22) where Ntot is the total dislocation charge per unit length (the concentration of electrons or holes captured to the dislocation energy states), e and e0 are the dielectric permittivity of Si and in vacuum, respectively, and nd is the concentration of shallow donors. Here, Eq. (22) assumes the screening radius Lscr of the electric ﬁeld around the dislocation as Lscr ¼ N tot=πnd ð Þ1=2: (23) Thus, Ntot is governed by the screening potential eϕ rather than the total number of DD states per unit length, less than (25)  106 cm1. Excess minority carriers results in a non-equilibrium occupation of dislocation energy states, and the dislo- cation electrostatic potential eϕ is reduced, roughly like eϕkT ln (n/p) for balance. Recombination processes of charge carriers at dislocations are illustrated in Fig. 23b. For clean dislocations the recombination rate is determined by direct recombination of electrons and holes captured by the 1D bands De and Dh. The carriers captured to 1D bands can recombine via the deep defect state DD (Kveder et al. 2001). Dislocation-Related Deep States Dislocation-related deep energy states are intensively investigated by deep-level transient spectroscopy (DLTS). A lot of knowledge on them has been clariﬁed (see, e.g., Patel and Kimerling 1979; Omling et al. 1985; Ono and Sumino 1985; Schröter et al. 2002), though even now the exact origin of the core defects respon- sible for all these well-known dislocation-related deep energy levels detected by DLTS is not yet clear completely. Figure 24 shows a typical DLTS spectrum of n-type FZ-Si deformed at 750 C to various shear strains. There are several asymmetrically broadened lines as DH1 (Ec0.24 eV), DH3 (Ec0.33 eV), and DH5 (Ec0.56 eV) in the deformed specimen (Ono and Sumino 1985). These lines can be observed for dislocations 576 I. Yonenaga introduced by plastic deformation at temperatures lower than 800 C. They show the logarithmic dependence of the signal amplitude on capture time and line broadening in the order of 1050 meV, characteristic for dislocation-related deep defects. Some important features of DLTS lines in plastically deformed Si were analyzed in detail (see for review by Schröter and Cerva 2002). Seibt et al. (2009) recently investigated intensively the interaction of dislocations with metal- lic impurities with DLTS. Dislocation-Related Shallow States Optical photoluminescence (PL) studies reveal dislocation-related radiative char- acters as a luminescence consisting of four broadened lines, D1D4, ﬁrst proved by Drozdov et al. (1976). Figure 25 shows typical PL spectrum of D1, D2, D3, and D4 at 0.812, 0.875, 0.934, and 1.000 eV, respectively, measured at T = 4.2 K in Si with various densities of dislocations ND (Kveder and Kittler 2008). Their inten- sities strongly depend on ND, characteristically with keeping the relative intensity ratio of D1 (D3) to that D2 (D4). D3 and D4 are dominant in samples with low ND, while the D1 becomes dominating in samples with high ND. Polarization exper- iments of the D line emission dependent on uniaxial stress were applied to establish that lines of D3 and D4 behave as a pair. Moreover, PL measurements Fig. 24 Deep-level spectra for plastically deformed Si at 750 C to shear strains of 2.6 (SP-1), 4.4 (SP-2), and 9.5% (SP-3). (Ono and Sumino 1985; Reused under permission of American Institute of Physics) 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 577 on dislocations in SiGe identiﬁed to be D3 as a phonon-assisted replica of D4 (Weber and Alonso 1990; Tanaka et al. 1996). Currently, the line pair D3/D4 is supposed to originate from recombination processes between EDe and EDh (Fig. 23) at straight segments of dissociated 60 dislocations (Sauer et al. 1986; Schröter and Cerva 2002). On the other hand, the lines of D1 and D2 are still problems, including whether they are pair or not, though there are proposals as impurity atoms, including O precipitates, in the dislocation core (Higgs et al. 1993; Tajima et al. 2012), dislocation jogs (Watson et al. 1998), segments of Lomer dislocations, or vacancy and/or self-interstitial clusters trapped in the dislocation core (Jones et al. 2000). Possibly, the process may relate to recombi- nation between EDe and EDh, somewhat promoted by the presence of such defects on dislocations (Schröter and Cerva 2002). Elucidation of optical characters of dislocations is important for further development of light-emitting devices (Kveder et al. 2001; Ng et al. 2001). Characteristics of Dislocations Specific in Solar Cell Si Currently, cast multi-crystalline silicon (mc-Si) grown in a crucible dominates the world commercial material markets of solar cells with 60% share on balance of conversion efﬁciency and cost. Inevitably, grain boundaries affect on dislocation Fig. 25 PL spectra of plastically deformed Si with various densities of dislocations. Numerals show dislocation density ND in a unit of cm2. (Drawn under permission of Prof. Kveder) 578 I. Yonenaga behavior. Here, some characteristics of dislocations in relation with grain boundaries in mc-Si are shown brieﬂy. Dislocation Behavior in Multi-crystalline Si Dislocations in mc-Si crystals are formed during crystal growth. The average dislocation densities vary between 104 and 106 cm2 and develop locally bundles of dislocations with densities higher than 108 cm2, which can extend over wide range in growth direction (Möller et al. 2005). Kutsukake et al. (2011) reported that dislocations are frequently generated at impingement regions of the growth of crystal grains where Si melt was enclosed by crystalline grains when it solidiﬁed. Such dislocations are formed in the crystallized melt to relax strain due to the volume expansion at solidiﬁcation. Dislocations generate heterogeneously from some spe- ciﬁc sites of grain boundary, that is, stress-concentrated positions as step, junctions, and so on, during cooling stage of growth through plastic deformation applied by the thermal stress originating mainly from the crucible shrinkage. Takahashi et al. (2010) observed dislocation generation from an artiﬁcially composed grain boundaries and propagation along the growth direction in mc-Si as seen in Fig. 26. They discussed the phenomena according to a ﬁnite element model that dislocations move into the grain along a slip system with the highest shear stress. Dislocation activities in motion intra-grain are similar to those in single- crystalline materials. Indeed, Werner et al. (1994) found no evidence for blocking against dislocation motion in mc-Si by in situ high-voltage TEM studies using a heating-straining stage at elevated temperatures. Typical impurities in the conven- tional concentration level in mc-Si do not affect dislocation activities remarkably (see section Impurity Effects on Dislocation Activities). Such dislocations multi- ply as growth proceeds according to the AHS model as shown in section Fig. 26 Dislocation etch pits developed from an artiﬁcial GB and propagated along the growth direction in a cast Si. Enlarged image is shown in (b). (Takahashi et al. 2010; Reused under permission of Elsevier) 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 579 Dislocation Dynamics in Deformation. They pile up as dislocation bundles (clus- ters) of high local density. The piled-up dislocations generally form to lineages or small-angle grain boundaries (sub-boundaries) through their motion, agglomeration, and annihilation to reduce strain energies and then build to cellular structures, as known historically in dislocated Si crystals. Ryningen et al. (2011) and Oriwol et al. (2013) observed such polygonization in mc-Si three-dimensionally by using various methods as X-ray topography, IR microscopy, electron backscattering pattern (EBSP) analysis, etc. Quantitative information of mechanical properties of polycrystalline Si is rather limited even now. Yield strength of polycrystalline Si is superimposed into Fig. 7 (Omri et al. 1985) in section Plastic Deformation and Yield Strength. In section Fracture Toughness, fracture toughness for polycrystalline Si is known to be KIC  1 MPa m1/2 (Chasiotis et al. 2006). Effect on Efficiency and Electrical Properties of Si Solar Cells The conversion efﬁciencies of mc-Si solar cells are generally in the range of 1215% and up to 18% in sophisticated cases, though the potential of mc-Si is thought to be higher, 20%. Dislocations in mc-Si are detrimental for the conversion efﬁciency. Figure 27 shows the carrier lifetime distribution of a vertical cross section of a mono- like cast Si in comparison with PL image of the same region (Kutsukake et al. 2015). The carrier lifetime is short in the dark regions of a high density of grown-in dislocations and their bundles. It should note that a dislocation itself has shallow electronic levels while that decorated by impurities affects signiﬁcantly on the carrier recombination due to the deep levels as discussed in section Electrical and Optical Properties of Dislocations. Thus, observed reduction of carrier lifetime attributes to recombination at dislocations accumulated by residual impurities in mc-Si. Fig. 27 (a) PL image and (b) carrier lifetime distribution of a vertical cross section of a mono-like cast Si (Kutsukake et al. 2015; Reused under permission of The Japan Society of Applied Physics) 580 I. Yonenaga In mc-Si recombination is discussed in terms with the relation between the local quantum efﬁciency (IQE) obtained by light beam-induced current (LBIC) technique and the dislocation density. Figure 28 shows correlation of the measured IQE values and the dislocation densities ρ in mc-Si. The lines in the ﬁgure were calculated using the Donolato theory (1998) with for various recombination strengths (Rinio et al. 2011). IQE decreases with an increase in the grown-in dislocation density and drops drastically beyond N  105 cm2. Therefore, to improve the conversion efﬁciency, reduction of a density of grown-in dislocations is one of the major subjects through dislocation engineering as stress and temperature control, annealing, hydrogen passivation, gettering, and so forth (Woo et al. 2016). Conclusive Remarks for Further Developments This chapter reviews the current knowledge of the properties of dislocations in Si comprehensively in a perspective viewpoint for the photovoltaic applications. Unfortunately, some topics cannot be introduced here or in details, for example, misﬁt dislocations (Kittler and Reiche 2009), trailing point defects formed by dislocation motion (Khorosheva et al. 2015), oxygen effects on dislocation proper- ties (Sumino and Yonenaga 1994), metallic impurity clustering on dislocations (Seibt et al. 2009), and preferential oxygen segregation on dislocations under a high magnetic ﬁeld (Yonenaga and Takahashi 2007). Readers, if necessary, can visit the literatures. In order to clarify intrinsic properties of dislocations for further developments in Si technology as dislocation engineering (Ng et al. 2001) and impurity engineering (Yu et al. 2013), the most important subject is to investigate dislocations of as clean as possible without inﬂuences of point defects and impurities. Misﬁt dislocations induced by wafer bonding are expected as a key target, though it might be recog- nized that even such dislocations have many nodes and, possibly jogs, acting as a source or absorber of point defects, due to their invariably induced network. A one-directional array structure of dislocations can be rather powerful for the purpose. In addition, since dislocations are expected as a one-dimensional Fig. 28 Correlation of the measured IQE values and the dislocation densities in mc-Si. The plotted lines were calculated using the extended Donolato theory for various recombination strengths from 0.002 to 0.022. (Rinio et al. 2011; Reused under permission of Wiley VCH) 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 581 conduction quantum wire, such dislocations are useful to study the carrier transpor- tation phenomenon along them as a hoping conduction (the Poole-Frenkel effect) (Trushin et al. 2011). Generation of a dislocation, including a misﬁt dislocation, is even now not well clariﬁed in spite of many theoretical predictions, for example, by Pizzagallis group (Godet et al. 2009). In situ observations in an atomic scale are necessary besides previous postmortem or low spatial resolution studies (Minor et al. 2005; Chen et al. 2018). Elucidation of dynamic behavior of dislocations under an interaction with various grain boundaries is indispensable to realize high-performance photovoltaic devices with multi- and polycrystalline Si. Utilization of artiﬁcial grain boundaries may be meaningful for the purpose (Kutsukake et al. 2013). From a huge number of papers on dislocation researches in Si in the long history, only the limited papers were introduced and/or cited in this chapter. This is respon- sible solely for the author. Cross-References Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method Oxygen Impurity in Crystalline Silicon Acknowledgment The author expresses his gratitude to his colleagues Profs. Y. Ohno, T. Taishi, K. Kutsukake, Drs. Y. Tokumoto, M. Deura for close and long-standing collaborations on disloca- tion researches in Si. This chapter is dedicated to the memory of Professor Malcolm I. Heggie. References H. Alexander, Dislocations in covalent crystals, in Dislocations in Solids, ed. by F. R. N. Nabarro, vol. 7, (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1986), pp. 113234 H. Alexander, P. Haasen, Dislocations and plastic ﬂow in the diamond structure. Solid State Phys. 22, 27158 (1968) H. Alexander, C. Kisielowski-Kemmerich, E.R. Weber, Investigations of well deﬁned dislocations in silicon. Physica 116B, 583593 (1983) J. Bennetto, R.W. Nunes, D. Vanderbilt, Period-doubled structure for the 90 partial dislocation in silicon. Phys. Rev. Lett. 79, 245248 (1997) I.E. Bondarenko, H. Blumtritt, J. Heydenreich, V.V. Kazmiruk, E.B. Yakimov, Recombination properties of dislocation slip planes. Phys. Status Solidi A 95, 173177 (1986) M. Brede, The brittle-to-ductile transition in silicon. Acta Metall. Mater. 41, 211228 (1993) V.V. Bulatov, J.F. Justo, W. Cai, S. Yip, A.S. Argon, T. Lenosky, M. de Koning, T. Diaz de la Rubia, Parameter-free modelling of dislocation motion: the case of silicon. Philos. Mag. A 81, 12571281 (2001) W. Cai, V.V. Bulatov, J.F. Justo, A.S. Argon, S. Yip, Intrinsic mobility of a dissociated dislocation in silicon. Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 33463349 (2000) 582 I. Yonenaga J. Castaing, P. Veyssière, L.P. Kubin, J. Rabier, The plastic deformation of silicon between 300C and 600C. Philos. Mag. A 44, 14071413 (1981) A. Castaldini, D. Cavalcoli, A. Cavallini, S. Pizzini, Experimental evidence of dislocation related shallow states in p-type Si. Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 076401 (2005) I. Chasiotis, S.W. Cho, K. Jonnalagadda, Fracture toughness and subcritical crack growth in polycrystalline silicon. Trans. ASME 73, 714722 (2006) M. Chen, L. Pethö, A. Sologubenko, J. Michler, R. Spolenak, J. Wheeler, Study of mechanical strain induced defects in lithographic silicon at low temperatures via in situ microcompression. in Abstracts of the 19th international conference on Extended Defects in Semiconductors, ed. by P. Komninou (Thessaloniki), 2429 June 2018 (2018) J. Cochard, I. Yonenaga, M. MHamdi, Z.L. Zhang, A novel constitutive model for semiconductors: The case of silicon. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 61, 24022032 (2013) C. Donolato, Modeling the effect of dislocations on the minority carrier diffusion length of a semiconductor. J. Appl. Phys. 84, 26562664 (1998) N.A. Drozdov, A.A. Patrin, V.D. Tkachev, Recombination radiation on dislocations in silicon. Sov. Phys. JETP Lett. 23, 597599 (1976) M.S. Duesbery, B. Joós, Dislocation motion in silicon: The shufﬂe-glide controversy. Philos. Mag. Lett. 74, 253258 (1996) V.G. Eremenko, V.I. Nikitenko, E.B. Yakimov, The dependence of the electrical properties of silicon on the plastic deformation and annealing temperatures. Sov. Phys. JEPT 46, 598603 (1977) V.N. Erofeev, V.I. Nikitenko, Comparison of theory of dislocation mobility with experimental data for silicon. Sov. Phys. JETP 33, 963966 (1971) B.Ya. Farber, V.I. Nikitenko, Change of dislocation mobility characteristics in silicon single crystals at elevated temperatures. Phys. Status Solidi A 73, K141K144 (1982) W.W. Gerberich, J. Michler, W.M. Mook, R. Ghisleni, F. Östlund, D.D. Stauffer, R. Ballarini, Scale effects for strength, ductility, and toughness in brittle materials. J. Mater. Res. 24, 898906 (2009) J. Godet, P. Hirel, S. Brochard, L. Pizzagalli, Evidence of two plastic regimes controlled by dislocation nucleation in silicon nanostructures. J. Appl. Phys. 105, 026104 (2009) V.A. Grazhulis, V.V. Kveder, V.Yu. Mukhina, Investigation of the energy spectrum and kinetic phenomena in dislocated Si crystals (I). Phys. Status Solidi A 43, 407415 (1977) V.A. Grazhulis, V.V. Kveder, Yu.A. Ossipyan, Investigation of the dislocation spin system in silicon as model of one-dimensional spin chains. Phys. Status Solidi B 103, 519528 (1981) K. Hayashi, S. Tsujimoto, Y. Okamoto, T. Nishikawa, Fracture toughness of single crystal silicon at high temperatures. J. Soc. Mater. Sci. Jpn. 41, 488494 (1992) (in Japanese) M.I. Heggie, R. Jones, Solitons and the electrical and mobility properties of dislocations in silicon. Philos. Mag. B 48, 365377 (1983) M.I. Heggie, R. Jones, A. Umerski, Ab initio total energy calculations of impurity pinning in silicon. Phys. Status Solidi A 138, 383387 (1993) V. Higgs, E.C. Lightowlers, E.A. Fitzgerald, Y.H. Xie, P.J. Silverman, Characterization of compo- sitionally graded Si1-x Gex alloy layers by photoluminescence spectroscopy and by cathodolu- minescence spectroscopy and imaging. J. Appl. Phys. 73, 19521956 (1993) P.B. Hirsch, A mechanism for the effect of doping on dislocation mobility. J. Phys. Colloq. (Paris) 40, C6-117C6-121 (1979) P.B. Hirsch, S.G. Roberts, The brittle-ductile transition in silicon. Philos. Mag. A 64, 5580 (1991) J.P. Hirth, J. Lothe, Theory of Dislocations, 2nd edn. (Wiley, New York, 1982) J. Hornstra, Dislocations in the diamond lattice. J. Phys. Chem. Solids 5, 129141 (1958) S.M. Hu, Critical stress in silicon brittle fracture, and effect of ion implantation and other surface treatments. J. Appl. Phys. 53, 35763580 (1982) S. Huang, S. Zhang, T. Belytschko, S.S. Terdalkar, T. Zhu, Mechanics of nanocrack: Fracture, dislocation emission, and amorphization. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 57, 840850 (2009) M. Imai, K. Sumino, In situ X-ray topographic study of the dislocation mobility in high-purity and impurity-doped silicon crystals. Philos. Mag. A 47, 599621 (1983) 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 583 S. Izumi, H. Ohta, C. Takahashi, T. Suzuki, H. Saka, Shufﬂe-set dislocation nucleation in semi- conductor silicon device. Philos. Mag. Lett. 90, 707714 (2010) S. Johansson, J.-Å. Schweitz, L. Tenerz, J. Tirén, Fracture testing of silicon microelements in situ in a scanning electron microscope. J. Appl. Phys. 63, 47994803 (1988) S. Johansson, F. Ericson, J.-Å. Schweitz, Inﬂuence of surface coatings on elasticity, residual stresses, and fracture properties of silicon microelements. J. Appl. Phys. 65, 122128 (1989) R. Jones, The structure of kinks on the 90 partial in silicon and a strained-bonded model for dislocation motion. Philos. Mag. B 42, 213219 (1980) R. Jones, B.J. Coomer, J.P. Goss, S. Öberg, P.R. Briddon, Intrinsic defects and the D1 to D4 optical bands detected in plastically deformed Si. Phys. Status Solidi B 222, 133140 (2000) K. Jurkschat, S. Senkader, P.R. Wilshaw, D. Gambaro, R.J. Falster, Onset of slip in silicon containing oxide precipitates. J. Appl. Phys. 90, 32193225 (2001) J.F. Justo, V.V. Bulatov, S. Yip, Dislocation core reconstruction and its effect on dislocation mobility in silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 86, 42494257 (1999a) J.F. Justo, A. Antonelli, T.M. Schmidt, A. Fazzio, Effects of extended defects on the properties of intrinsic and extrinsic point defects in silicon. Physica B 273274, 473475 (1999b) A. Kailer, Y.G. Gogotsi, K.G. Nickel, Phase transformations of silicon caused by contact loading. J. Appl. Phys. 81, 30573063 (1997) M.A. Khorosheva, V.V. Kveder, M. Seibt, On the nature of defects produced by motion of dislocations in silicon. Phys. Status Solidi A 212, 16951703 (2015) M. Kittler, M. Reiche, Dislocations as active components in novel silicon devices. Adv. Eng. Mater. 11, 249258 (2009) T. Kizuka, Y. Takatani, K. Asaka, R. Yoshizaki, Measurements of the atomistic mechanics of single crystalline silicon wires of nanometer width. Phys. Rev. B 72, 035333 (2005) H.R. Kolar, J.C.H. Spence, H. Alexander, Observation of moving dislocation kinks and unpinning. Phys. Rev. Lett. 77, 40314034 (1996) S. Korte, J.S. Barnard, R.J. Stearn, W.J. Clegg, Deformation of silicon  Insights from micro- compression testing at 25500C. Int. J. Plast. 27, 18531866 (2011) S. Kusanagi, T. Sekiguchi, K. Sumino, Difference of the electrical properties of screw and 60 dislocations in silicon as detected with temperature-dependent electron beam induced current technique. Appl. Phys. Lett. 61, 792794 (1992) K.H. Küsters, H. Alexander, Photoplastic effect in silicon. Physica B 116, 594599 (1983) K. Kutsukake, T. Abe, N. Usami, K. Fujiwara, I. Yonenaga, K. Morishita, K. Nakajima, Generation mechanism of dislocations and their clusters in multicrystalline silicon during two-dimensional growth. J. Appl. Phys. 110, 083530 (2011) K. Kutsukake, N. Usami, Y. Ohno, Y. Tokumoto, I. Yonenaga, Control of grain boundary propa- gation in mono-like Si: Utilization of functional grain boundaries. Appl. Phys. Express 6, 025505 (2013) K. Kutsukake, M. Deura, Y. Ohno, I. Yonenaga, Characterization of silicon ingots: Mono-like versus high-performance multicrystalline. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 54, 08KD10 (2015) V. Kveder, M. Kittler, Dislocations in silicon and D-band luminescence for infrared light emitters. Mater. Sci. Forum 590, 2956 (2008) V.V. Kveder, Yu.A. Osipyan, W. Schröter, G. Zoth, On the energy spectrum of dislocations in silicon. Phys. Status Solidi A 72, 701713 (1982) V. Kveder, M. Kittler, W. Schröter, Recombination activity of contaminated dislocations in silicon: A model describing electron-beam-induced current contrast behavior. Phys. Rev. B 63, 115208 (2001) B.R. Lawn, Fracture of Brittle Solids (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK, 1993) N. Lehto, S. Öberg, Effects of dislocation interactions: Application to the period-doubled core of the 90 partial in silicon. Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 55685571 (1998) Z. Li, C. Picu, Shufﬂe-glide dislocation transformation in Si. J. Appl. Phys. 113, 083519 (2013) F. Louchet, On the mobility of dislocations in silicon by in situ straining in a high-voltage electron microscope. Philos. Mag. A 43, 12891297 (1981) 584 I. Yonenaga F. Louchet, J. Pelissier, D. Caillard, J.P. Peyrade, C. Levade, G. Vanderschaeve, In situ TEM study of dislocation mobility in semiconducting materials. Microsc. Microanal. Microstruct. 4, 199200 (1993) K. Maeda, S. Takeuchi, Enhancement of dislocation mobility in semiconducting crystals by electronic excitation, in Dislocations in Solids, ed. by F. R. N. Nabarro, M. S. Duesbery, vol. 10, (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1996), pp. 443504 K. Maeda, K. Kimura, S. Takeuchi, Effects of excitations on dislocation mobility in elemental semiconductors. Bull. Acad. Sci. USSR Phys. Ser. 51, 9398 (1987) A. Masolin, P.-O. Bouchard, R. Martini, M. Bernacki, Thermo-mechanical and fracture properties in single-crystal silicon. J. Mater. Sci. 48, 979988 (2013) J.C. McLaughlin, A.F.W. Willoughby, Fracture of silicon wafers. J. Cryst. Growth 85, 8390 (1987) R. Meingast, H. Alexander, Dissociated dislocations in germanium. Phys. Status Solidi A 17, 229236 (1973) G. Michot, Fundamentals of silicon fracture. Cryst. Prop. Prep. 17&18, 5598 (1988) G. Michot, M. Angela Loyola de Oliveira, A. George, Dislocation loops at crack tips: control and analysis of sources in silicon. Mater. Sci. Eng. A 176, 99109 (1994) A.M. Minor, E.T. Lilleodden, M. Jin, E.A. Stach, D.C. Chrzan, J.W. Morris Jr., Room temperature dislocation plasticity in silicon. Philos. Mag. 85, 323330 (2005) K. Minowa, I. Yonenaga, K. Sumino, Climb of dislocations induced by oxygen precipitation in silicon. Inst. Phys. Conf. Ser. 117, 217220 (1991) H.J. Möller, C. Funke, M. Rinio, S. Scholz, Multicrystalline silicon for solar cells. Thin Solid Films 487, 179187 (2005) S. Nakao, T. Ando, M. Shikida, K. Sato, Effect of temperature on fracture toughness in a single- crystal-silicon ﬁlm and transition in its fracture mode. J. Micromech. Microeng. 18, 015026 (2008) W.L. Ng, M.A. Lourenço, R.M. Gwilliam, S. Ledain, G. Shao, K.P. Homewood, An efﬁcient room- temperature silicon-based light-emitting diode. Nature 410, 192194 (2001) Y. Ohno, T. Shirakawa, T. Taishi, I. Yonenaga, Interaction of phosphorus with dislocations in heavily phosphorus doped silicon. Appl. Phys. Lett. 95, 091915 (2009) Y. Ohno, T. Taishi, Y. Tokumoto, I. Yonenaga, Interaction of dopant atoms with stacking faults in silicon crystals. J. Appl. Phys. 108, 073514 (2010) Y. Ohno, Y. Tokumoto, H. Taneichi, I. Yonenaga, K. Togase, S.R. Nishitani, Interaction of dopant atoms with stacking faults in silicon. Physica B 407, 30063008 (2012) T. Okuno, H. Saka, Electron microscopie study of dislocations introduced by deformation in a Si between 77 and 873 K. J. Mater. Sci. 48, 115124 (2013) P. Omling, E.R. Weber, L. Montelius, H. Alexander, J. Michel, Electrical properties of dislocations and point defects in plastically deformed silicon. Phys. Rev. B 32, 65716581 (1985) M. Omri, J.P. Michel, C. Tete, A. George, Mechanical behavior of polycrystals and single crystals of silicon. in Proceedings of International Conference on Strength of Metals and Alloys (1985), pp. 7580 M. Omri, C. Tete, J.-P. Michel, A. George, On the yield point of ﬂoating-zone silicon single crystals I. Yield stresses and activation parameters. Philos. Mag. A 55, 601616 (1987) H. Ono, K. Sumino, Defect states in p-type silicon crystals induced by plastic deformation. J. Appl. Phys. 57, 287292 (1985) D. Oriwol, E.-R. Carl, A.N. Danilewsky, L. Sylla, W. Seifert, M. Kittler, H.S. Leipner, Small-angle subgrain boundaries emanating from dislocation pile-ups in multicrystalline silicon studied with synchrotron white-beam X-ray topography. Acta Mater. 61, 69036910 (2013) J.R. Patel, L.C. Kimerling, Dislocation defect states in silicon. J. Phys. Colloq. (Paris) 40, C6-67C6-70 (1979) P. Pirouz, A.V. Samant, M.H. Hong, A. Moulin, L.P. Kubin, On temperature dependence of deformation mechanism and the brittle-ductile transition in semiconductors. J. Mater. Res. 14, 27832793 (1999) L. Pizzagalli, Atomistic modeling of the dissociation of a screw dislocation in silicon. J. Mater. Sci. 51, 28692876 (2016) 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 585 L. Pizzagalli, P. Beauchamp, Dislocation motion in silicon: the shufﬂe-glide controversy revisited. Philos. Mag. Lett. 88, 421427 (2008) J. Rabier, On the core structure of dislocations and the mechanical properties of silicon. Philos. Mag. 93, 162173 (2013) J. Rabier, P. Veyssière, J.L. Demenet, Plastic deformation of silicon at low temperature and the inﬂuence of doping. J. Phys. Colloq. (Paris) 44, C4-243C4-253 (1983) J. Rabier, P. Cordier, J.L. Demenet, H. Garem, Plastic deformation of Si at low temperature under high conﬁning pressure. Mater. Sci. Eng. A 309310, 7477 (2001) J. Rabier, L. Pizzagalli, J.L. Demenet, Dislocations in silicon at high stress, in Dislocations in Solids, ed. by J. P. Hirth, L. Kubin, vol. 16, (Elsevier, Amsterdam, 2010), pp. 47108 J. Rabier, A. Montagne, J.M. Wheeler, J.L. Demenet, J. Michler, R. Ghisleni, Silicon micropillars: High stress plasticity. Phys. Status Solidi C 10, 1115 (2013) I.L.F. Ray, D.J.H. Cockayne, The dissociation of dislocations in silicon. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A 325, 543554 (1971) W.T. Read, Theory of dislocations in germanium. Philos. Mag. 45, 775796 (1954) M. Rinio, A. Yodyunyong, S. Keipert-Colberg, D. Borchert, A. Montesdeoca-Santana, Recombi- nation in ingot cast silicon solar cells. Phys. Status Solidi A 208, 760768 (2011) D. Rodney, L. Ventelon, E. Clouet, L. Pizzagalli, F. Willaime, Ab initio modeling of dislocation core properties in metals and semiconductors. Acta Mater. 124, 633659 (2017) B. Ryningen, G. Stokkan, M. Kivambe, T. Ervik, O. Lohne, Growth of dislocation clusters during directional solidiﬁcation of multicrystalline silicon ingots. Acta Mater. 59, 77037710 (2011) H. Saka, K. Yamamoto, S. Arai, K. Kuroda, In-situ TEM observation of transformation of dislocations from shufﬂe to glide sets in Si under supersaturation of interstitials. Philos. Mag. 86, 48414850 (2006) J. Samuels, S.G. Roberts, The brittle-ductile transition in silicon. I. Experiments. Proc. Roy. Soc. Lond. A 421, 123 (1989) M. Sato, K. Sumino, Locking of dislocations by impurity oxygen in silicon crystals, in Proceedings of 9th Yamada Conference on Dislocations in Solids, ed. by H. Suzuki, T. Ninomiya, K. Sumino, S. Takeuchi, (University of Tokyo Press, Tokyo, 1985), pp. 391394 M. Sato, K. Hiraga, K. Sumino, HVEM structure images of extended 60- and screw dislocations in silicon. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 19, L155L158 (1980) R. Sauer, Ch. Kisielowski-Kemmerich, H. Alexander, Dissociation-width-dependent radiative recombination of electrons and holes at widely split dislocations in silicon. Phys. Rev. Lett. 57, 14721475 (1986) W. Schröter, R. Labusch, Electrical properties of dislocations in Ge and Si. Phys. Status Solidi 36, 539550 (1969) W. Schröter, H. Cerva, Interaction of point defects with dislocations in silicon and germanium: Electrical and optical effects. Solid State Phenom. 8586, 67143 (2002) W. Schröter, H.G. Brion, H. Siethoff, Yield point and dislocation mobility in silicon and germa- nium. J. Appl. Phys. 54, 18161820 (1983) W. Schröter, V. Kveder, H. Hedemann, Electrical effects of point defect clouds at dislocations in silicon, studied by deep level transient spectroscopy. Solid State Phenom. 8284, 213218 (2002) M. Seibt, R. Khalil, V. Kveder, W. Schröter, Electronic states at dislocations and metal silicide precipitates in crystalline silicon and their role in solar cell material. Appl. Phys. A Mater. Sci. Process. 96, 235253 (2009) K. Shima, S. Izumi, S. Sakai, Reaction pathway analysis for dislocation nucleation from a sharp corner in silicon: Glide set versus shufﬂe set. J. Appl. Phys. 108, 063504 (2010) W. Shockley, Dislocations and edge states in the diamond crystal structure. Phys. Rev. 91, 228 (1953) H. Siethoff, Yield point and dislocation velocity of diamond and zincblende semiconductors in different temperature regimes. Philos. Mag. A 82, 12991316 (2002) H. Siethoff, H.G. Brion, W. Schröter, A regime of the yield point of silicon at high temperatures. Appl. Phys. Lett. 75, 12341236 (1999) 586 I. Yonenaga C. St. John, The brittle-to-ductile transition in pre-cleaved silicon single crystals. Philos. Mag. 32, 11931212 (1975) W.A. Stepanov, V.V. Shpeizman, A kinetic treatment of the brittle fracture of materials. Mater. Sci. Eng. 49, 195228 (1981) M. Suezawa, K. Sumino, I. Yonenaga, Dislocation dynamics in the plastic deformation of silicon crystals II. Theoretical analysis of experimental results. Phys. Status Solidi A 51, 217226 (1979) M. Suezawa, K. Sumino, M. Iwaizumi, ESR in plastically deformed silicon crystals. Inst. Phys. Conf. Ser. 59, 407412 (1981) K. Sumino, Mechanical behaviour of semiconductors, in Handbook on Semiconductor, ed. by S. Mahajan, vol. 3, (North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1994), pp. 73181 K. Sumino, H. Harada, In situ X-ray topographic studies of the generation and multiplication processes of dislocations in silicon crystals at elevated temperatures. Philos. Mag. A 44, 13191334 (1981) K. Sumino, M. Imai, Interaction of dislocations with impurities in silicon crystals studied by in situ X-ray topography. Philos. Mag. A 47, 753766 (1983) K. Sumino, I. Yonenaga, Dislocation dynamics and mechanical behaviour of elemental and compound semiconductors. Phys. Status Solidi A 138, 573581 (1993) K. Sumino, I. Yonenaga, Oxygen effect on mechanical properties, in Semiconductors and Semi- metals, ed. by F. Shimura, vol. 42, (Academic, San Diego, 1994), pp. 449511 K. Sumino, I. Yonenaga, Interactions of impurities with dislocations: Mechanical effects. Solid State Phenom. 8586, 145176 (2002) K. Sumino, I. Yonenaga, M. Imai, T. Abe, Effects of nitrogen on dislocation behavior and mechanical strength in silicon crystals. J. Appl. Phys. 54, 50165020 (1983) H. Suzuki, Segregation of solute atoms to stacking faults. J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 17, 322325 (1962) T. Suzuki, T. Yasutomi, T. Tokuoka, I. Yonenaga, Plasticity of III-V compounds at low tempera- tures. Phys. Status Solidi A 171, 4752 (1999) S.M. Sze, Physics of Semiconductor Devices, 2nd edn. (Wiley, New York, 1981) M. Tajima, Y. Iwata, F. Okayama, H. Toyota, H. Onodera, T. Sekiguchi, Deep-level photo- luminescence due to dislocations and oxygen precipitates in multicrystalline Si. J. Appl. Phys. 111, 113523 (2012) I. Takahashi, N. Usami, K. Kutsukake, G. Stokkan, K. Morishita, K. Nakajima, Generation mechanism of dislocations during directional solidiﬁcation of multicrystalline silicon using artiﬁcially designed seed. J. Cryst. Growth 312, 897901 (2010) S. Takeuchi, Two-step temperature dependence of the yield stress in crystals. J. Alloys Compd. 378, 6165 (2004) M. Tanaka, K. Higashida, HVEM characterization of crack tip dislocations in silicon crystals. J. Electron Microscopy 53, 353360 (2004) K. Tanaka, M. Suezawa, I. Yonenaga, Photoluminescence spectra of deformed Si-Ge alloy. J. Appl. Phys. 80, 69916996 (1996) M. Trushin, O. Vyvenko, V. Vdovin, M. Kittler, Giant Poole-Frenkel effect for the shallow dislocation-related hole traps in silicon. J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 281, 012009 (2011) A. Valladares, J.A. White, A.P. Sutton, First principles simulations of the structure, formation, and migration energies of kinks on the 90 partial dislocation in silicon. Phys. Rev. Lett. 81, 49034906 (1998) G. Vanderschaeve, D. Caillard, On the mobility of dislocations in semiconductor crystals. Mater. Sci. Eng. A 462, 418421 (2007) G. Vanderschaeve, C. Levade, D. Caillard, Transmission electron microscopy in situ investigation of dislocation mobility in semiconductors. J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 12, 1009310103 (2000) G.P. Watson, J.L. Benton, Y.H. Xie, E.A. Fitzgerald, Inﬂuence of misﬁt dislocation interactions on photoluminescence spectra of SiGe on patterned Si. J. Appl. Phys. 83, 37733776 (1998) E.R. Weber, H. Alexander, Deep level defects in plastically deformed silicon. J. Phys. Colloq. (Paris) 44, C4-319C4-328 (1983) J. Weber, M.I. Alonso, Detection of dislocation-related photoluminescence bands in Si-Ge alloys grown by liquid phase epitaxy, in Defect Control in Semiconductors, ed. by K. Sumino, (North- Holland, Amsterdam, 1990), pp. 14531457 18 Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations 587 J.D. Weeks, J.C. Tully, L.C. Kimerling, Theory of recombination-enhanced defect reactions in semiconductors. Phys. Rev. B 12, 32863292 (1975) M. Werner, M. Bartsch, U. Messerschmidt, D. Baither, TEM observations of dislocation motion in polycrystalline silicon during in situ straining in the high voltage electron microscope. Phys. Status Solidi A 146, 133143 (1994) M. Werner, E.R. Weber, M. Bartsch, U. Messerschmidt, Carrier injection enhanced dislocation glide in silicon. Phys. Status Solidi A 150, 337341 (1995) K. Wessel, H. Alexander, On the mobility of partial dislocations in silicon. Philos. Mag. 35, 15231536 (1977) S.-B. Woo, M. Bertoni, K.-M. Choi, S.-J. Nam, S. Castellanos, D.M. Powell, T. Buonassisi, H.-J. Choi, An insight into dislocation density reduction in multicrystalline silicon. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 155, 88100 (2016) Y. Yamamoto, K. Togase, Y. Ohno, I. Yonenaga, S.R. Nishitani, First principles calculations of solution energies of dopants around stacking faults in Si crystal. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 53, 061302 (2014) Y. Yamashita, E. Jyobe, Y. Kamiura, K. Maeda, Hydrogen enhanced dislocation glides in silicon. Phys. Status Solidi A 171, 2734 (1999) K. Yasutake, S. Shimizu, M. Umeno, H. Kawabe, Velocity of twinning partial dislocations in silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 61, 940946 (1987) I. Yonenaga, Upper yield stress of Si crystals at high temperature. J. Electrochem. Soc. 143, 176178 (1996) I. Yonenaga, Strength of Si crystals. Recent Res. Dev. ElectroChem. 1, 161176 (1998) I. Yonenaga, Growth and mechanical properties of GeSi bulk crystals. J. Mater. Sci.: Mater. Electron. 10, 329333 (1999) I. Yonenaga, Dislocation-impurity interaction in silicon. Solid State Phenom. 9596, 423432 (2004) I. Yonenaga, Nitrogen effects on generation and velocity of dislocations in Czochralski-grown silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 98, 023517 (2005a) I. Yonenaga, Dislocationimpurity interaction in Si. Mater. Sci. Eng. B 124125, 293296 (2005b) I. Yonenaga, Growth and fundamental properties of SiGe bulk crystals. J. Cryst. Growth 275, 9198 (2005c) I. Yonenaga, Hardness, yield strength, and dislocation velocity in elemental and compound semi- conductors. Mater. Trans. 46, 19791985 (2005d) I. Yonenaga, An overview of plasticity of Si crystals governed by dislocation motion. Eng. Fract. Mech. 147, 468479 (2015) I. Yonenaga, K. Sumino, Dislocation dynamics in the plastic deformation of silicon crystals I. Experiments. Phys. Status Solidi A 50, 685693 (1978) I. Yonenaga, K. Sumino, Inﬂuence of oxygen precipitation along dislocations on the strength of silicon crystals. J. Appl. Phys. 80, 734738 (1996) I. Yonenaga, K. Takahashi, Effect of magnetic ﬁeld on dislocation-oxygen impurity interaction in silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 101, 053528 (2007) I. Yonenaga, T. Taishi, X. Huang, K. Hoshikawa, Dynamic characteristics of dislocations in highly boron-doped silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 89, 57885790 (2001) I. Yonenaga, T. Taishi, X. Huang, K. Hoshikawa, Dynamic characteristics of dislocations in Ge-doped and (Ge+B) codoped silicon. J. Appl. Phys. 93, 265269 (2003) X.-G. Yu, J. Chen, X.-Y. Ma, D. Yang, Impurity engineering of Czochralski silicon. Mater. Sci. Eng. R 74, 133 (2013) T.-Y. Zhang, P. Haasen, The inﬂuence of ionized hydrogen on the brittle-to-ductile transition in silicon. Philos. Mag. A 60, 1538 (1989) B. Ziebarth, M. Mrovec, C. Elsässer, P. Gumbsch, Interstitial iron impurities at cores of dissociated dislocations in silicon. Phys. Rev. B 92, 195308 (2015) 588 I. Yonenaga Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 19 Matthias Trempa, Georg Müller, Jochen Friedrich, and Christian Reimann Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 590 Grain Boundaries and Their Inﬂuences on Solar Cell Performance ........................... 592 Classiﬁcation and Types of Grain Boundaries .............................................. 592 Properties of Grain Boundaries .............................................................. 596 Characterization of Grain Boundaries .......................................................... 599 Overview ..................................................................................... 599 Optical Grain Detection and Analysis ....................................................... 601 Orientation Mapping and Determining Grain Boundary Types ............................ 605 Characterization of Electronic Material Properties in Relation to Grain Structure and Grain Boundaries ............................................................................ 607 Formation of Grain Boundaries During Directional Solidiﬁcation (DS) ...................... 609 Coarse Grain Structures Without Seed Crystals (Classic mc and Dendritic mc) . . . . . . . . . . 613 Towards Monocrystals by Using Monocrystalline Seeds (Quasi-Mono QM) ............. 618 Fine Grain Structures with Seeding on Si Feedstock (Original HPM) ..................... 625 Fine Grain Structures Without Seeding on Si Material (HPM 2.0) ........................ 630 Conclusions for Optimization Strategies with Respect to Grain Boundary Engineering ................................................................. 633 Cross-References ................................................................................ 634 References ....................................................................................... 635 M. Trempa (*) Fraunhofer Institute for Integrated Systems and Device Technology (IISB), Erlangen, Germany e-mail: matthias.trempa@iisb.fraunhofer.de G. Müller Crystal Consulting, Langensendelbach, Germany e-mail: mueller@crystalconsulting.de J. Friedrich  C. Reimann Fraunhofer Technology Center Semiconductor Materials (THM), Freiberg, Germany Fraunhofer Institute for Integrated Systems and Device Technology (IISB), Erlangen, Germany e-mail: jochen.friedrich@iisb.fraunhofer.de; christian.reimann@iisb.fraunhofer.de  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_25 589 Abstract Directionally solidiﬁed (DS) silicon is typically multicrystalline (mc), i.e., it contains per deﬁnition grain boundaries. Even so-called quasi-mono silicon is not free of grain boundaries. The crystallographic arrangement of neighboring grains is used for a deﬁnition of the certain types of grain boundaries by the so-called coincidence site lattice parameter Σ. It turns out that the predominant types of grain boundaries are twin (Σ = 3), small angle (Σ  1), and large angle (random) grain boundaries. For the solar cell application, it is of great relevance that the nontwin boundaries are often accompanied by dislocation defects. These dislocations, especially their clusters, are well known to reduce the minority charge carrier lifetime and hence the efﬁciency of solar cells. Therefore, the corresponding characterization methods for the types of grain boundaries, their length, spatial distribution, and grain size will be presented in this chapter. The main part of the chapter presents a detailed treatment of the occurrence of the various types of grain boundaries and the related dislocations structures for different variants of the DS method. The most important DS variants differ from each other mainly by the seeding and nucleation processes which result in different sizes of the grains and also different prevailing grain boundaries. The so-called classic mc, dendritic mc, and quasi-mono Si material have relatively large average grain sizes ranging from mm up to cm. The solar cell performance of this material is mainly limited by the occurrence of dislocation structures which can easily spread in the relatively large grains. This problem seems to be decreased in a recently developed ﬁne grained material (micro-meter up to mm scale). The variety of nucleation concepts to achieve a ﬁne grained structure reaches from seeding with small Si feed or non-Si particles to specially structured proﬁles of the crucible bottom. The resulting higher performance of solar cells is promising for the future and gave reason to call the material high performance mc Si (HPM). The whole chapter includes results of recent worldwide research and devel- opment activities but provides also its proving under production-like conditions. All results are illustrated by corresponding ﬁgures and allocated to important references. Keywords Multicrystalline silicon  Grain boundaries  Directional solidiﬁcation  Small angle grain boundaries  Large angle grain boundaries  Twin boundaries  Random grain boundaries  Laue scanner method Introduction Most solar cells are produced by using either monocrystalline silicon grown by the Czochralski (CZ) crystal pulling method (Chap. 6, Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si) or multicrystalline silicon obtained by directional solidiﬁcation (DS) of the melt in a crucible (Chap. 7, Growth of Multicrystalline 590 M. Trempa et al. Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method). The DS equip- ment and process technology is less expensive compared to Czochralski. However, solar cells made from DS silicon have about 2% less efﬁciency compared to CZ-based cells. The main reason for this difference is the fact that DS silicon is not mono- but multicrystalline which means it contains defects like grain boundaries and dislocations, whereas CZ silicon is free of grain boundaries (= deﬁnition of monocrystalline) and typically free of dislocations. In combination with a higher amount of metals in DS silicon, the crystallographic defects like grain boundaries get even more detrimental to the solar cell performance. Grain boundaries are by deﬁnition crystal regions where two grains i.e., mono- crystalline silicon regions of different crystallographic orientation are neighboring each other. It is obvious that in between the two grains a transition region exists were the atoms are shifted in general from their regular positions in comparison to the lattice of a perfect monocrystal. For example, dislocation defects are typically occurring within the boundary region. It will be shown that the speciﬁc difference in orientation between the two grains has an important inﬂuence on the degree of lattice disorder within the grain boundary. That means the effect of a grain boundary on the electronic material properties and hence on the solar cell performance can considerably differ depending on the type of grain boundary. For example, certain types of grain boundaries can reduce the formation, move- ment, or multiplication of dislocations which are accompanying the grain boundary defects. Furthermore, certain grain boundaries can interfere with gettering mechanisms during solar cell fabrication processes like the phosphorus or hydrogen gettering. With respect to the future development of silicon-based solar cells, it is important to consider which potential the DS process has regarding a further improvement of the material quality, i.e., reduction of deleterious crystal defects like grain boundaries and accompanying dislocations. From the point of view of research and development of silicon material preparation, one can state that the work on the CZ crystal growth process started already around 1950. It was mainly driven in the past by the requirements of micro- and power electronic devices. The DS process of silicon was from the beginning only of interest for photovoltaic applications. Intensive research and development activities on DS of silicon started fairly later between 2000 and 2010. Therefore, one can expect that there still exists a considerable potential to improve the DS process further by future research and development activities, especially with respect to an optimization of grain boundary growth. It is the main goal of this chapter to show how certain conditions and parameters of the DS process like seeding, crucible preparation, or thermal proﬁles are related to the formation of certain types of grain boundaries (section Formation of grain boundaries during directional solidiﬁcation (DS)). Based on these results, one can draw certain conclusions for grain boundary engineering, i.e., optimizing the DS process to achieve high solar cell performance material. In the ﬁrst part, the criteria for classifying the various types of grain boundaries will be introduced and its speciﬁc inﬂuences on the solar cell performance. In the following an overview of characterization methods for grain boundary types is given with special emphasis on methods which are applicable to the complete solar wafer area of 156  156 mm2. 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 591 Grain Boundaries and Their Influences on Solar Cell Performance Classification and Types of Grain Boundaries In the previous chapters of this handbook, e.g., Chaps. 17, Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon or 18, Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Disloca- tions, it has been shown that various types of crystal defects can occur in photo- voltaic Si depending on the production method of the Si crystals or ingots. This chapter treats grain boundaries which are occurring only in multicrystalline Si obtained typically by directional solidiﬁcation and kerﬂess processes including ribbon growth and direct deposition on alternative substrates. By deﬁnition, multi-crystalline (mc) Si consists of a number of monocrystalline grains which are separated from each other by a grain boundary. Typically, the grains in a multicrystalline material like Si have different crystallographic orientations as shown, for example, in Fig. 1 (where the different grain orientations are visible due to the different light reﬂection). That means a grain boundary is a transition region between two monocrystalline crystal regions where the regular crystal lattice is distorted. This misﬁt on the atomistic scale of a grain boundary is the reason why grain boundaries must be considered generally as a crystal defect which can have delete- rious inﬂuences on the electronic properties of the solar cell material. However, it is also obvious that the defect generating degree of misﬁt in a certain grain boundary depends on the orientation of the adjacent crystal lattices of the two neighboring grains. Therefore, one should expect a different degree of deleterious inﬂuence on the solar cell performance depending on the orientation between the two grains. In fact the ﬁrst goal of this chapter will be to explain and demonstrate which type of Fig. 1 Typical mc-wafer (156  156 mm2) after structural etching (details see later). ( Fraunhofer IISB) 592 M. Trempa et al. grain boundary in mc-Si is less deleterious and can be tolerated in solar cells and which one is more harmful and should be avoided. Description and Types of Grain Boundaries A grain boundary can be fully described by ﬁve independent macroscopic degrees of freedom (DOFs). Three DOFs specify the mutual misorientation of the two grains and two more DOFs are needed to deﬁne the orientation of the grain boundary itself between the misorientated grains. Considering the necessity of ﬁve DOFs for a complete crystallographic description of a grain boundary, one can expect a huge number of different grain boundaries. However, it turns out that materials like Si prefer only a few types of grain boundaries for energetic reasons. Therefore, it is reasonable to categorize the grain boundaries into groups according to the relation- ship among individual DOFs. A very special grain boundary occurring relatively often in mc-Si is the so-called small angle grain boundary (SAGB) in contrast to all other grain boundaries which are named as large angle grain boundaries. In SAGBs, the angle of misorientation between the two adjacent grains is small (a few degrees or less). In this case, the lattice mismatch on the atomic scale can be described by an array of edge-type dislocations along the grain boundary. This model is illustrated in Fig. 2 for a cubic primitive lattice. The angle θ of the misorientation between the two lattices can be related to the Burgers vector b and the distance D between two dislocations. Grain I Grain II D b b θ/2 θ/2 Fig. 2 Sketch of a small-angle grain boundary: Two grains (I and II) having a common [001] axis and angular difference in orientation of θ are forming a low-angle grain boundary which can be considered to consist of an array of edge dislocations 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 593 D ¼ b 2 sin θ 2    b θ For very small angles θ, the relation can be approximated by D = b/θ. This relation allows for an estimation of the tilt angle between the grains if the dislocation density in the grain boundary is known. For increasing grain boundary angle θ, the spacing D between the dislocations decreases and the model above becomes no longer useful. The common concept for these cases is the coincidence site lattice (CSL) model. It is based on the fact that for certain orientations of the two lattices of the two neighboring grains, parts of the lattice sites coincide if one continues the two lattices into the respective grains. This construction is exempliﬁed by Fig. 3. The CSL model is very popular because it allows describing the grain boundary by only one parameter Σ instead of ﬁve. Σ is deﬁned by the ratio between the number of lattice sites within the unit cell of the coincidence lattice and the unit cell of the crystal, i.e., Si. This ratio is equal to the volume of the unit cell of the coincidence lattice divided by the volume of the Si unit cell. According to this deﬁnition, the values of Σ are always odd numbers. Σ equal to one deﬁnes the monocrystal. The small angle grain boundary discussed above would have a Σ value which is close to one. The lowest integer Σ value except one is Σ = 3 which describes a so-called ﬁrst order twin boundary. Twin boundaries are grain boundaries with the highest sym- metry and lowest disturbance of the crystal lattice. Figure 4 shows a typical Σ = 3 twin conﬁguration of Si where the two Si grains have the same 111-orientation. Within the twin grain boundary, all Si bonds are saturated, i.e., no open dangling bonds exist. The lattices of the two grains are twisted by 60 to each other within the twin plane only. The formation energy of this grain boundary is very low because it [100] [010] [100] [010] CSL Fig. 3 Sketch for an evaluation of the coincidence site lattice (CSL). See also text 594 M. Trempa et al. corresponds just to one stacking fault within the sequence of the Si layers. The energy ESF of the stacking fault formation in Si is relatively low (ESF = 26 mJ/m2). Therefore, its formation can occur very often during the growth of mc-Si. Other types of twin boundaries have values of Σ = Σ3n whereas their occurrence in mc-Si material decreases in frequency with increasing Σ value from Σ3 to Σ9 to Σ27. Also other Σ grain boundaries like Σ5 or Σ11 exist but very rarely. In theory, very large Σ values can be calculated; however, a grain boundary with Σ  27 is practically stated as a random large angle grain boundary due to its low symmetry. It has to be noted that one Σ type can be formed by several lattice operations meaning the rotation about a speciﬁc crystallographic axis by certain degrees. For instance, there exists beside the already mentioned Σ3 {111} (rotation angle: 60) also a Σ3 {112} grain boundary (rotation angle 180). Further details, for example, on orien- tation relations between grains of certain Σ types are discussed in literature (see Vlachavas 1985; Wilhelm 1971). For a general application of the CSL concept including large angle grain bound- aries, one has to consider that in a real crystal, certain deviations of the atoms from the exact CSL relationship may exist. Therefore, it is important to deﬁne a criterion for the permissible deviation from exact coincidence. Such a criterion was given by Brandon (1966). Its derivation is based on the assumption that deviations from the exact lattice site coincidence can be attributed to slight orientation deviations caused by arrays of dislocations. Such a dislocation model was already used above for the description of small angle grain boundaries (compare Fig. 2). Brandons criterion gives a relation for the maximum permissible deviation angle θ in dependence of the CSL parameter Σ θ ¼ θo Σ ð Þ1=2 where θo is constant about 15. According to this criterion, the transition from a small angle grain boundary (Σ  1) to a large angle grain boundary is at θ  15 . Twin boundary 111 111 Fig. 4 Sketch of a 111 Σ = 3 twin boundary 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 595 Properties of Grain Boundaries Energy of Grain Boundaries Each grain boundary means an extra energy in the crystal lattice compared to the single crystal. This extra energy (grain boundary energy) has the unit J/m2 and is speciﬁc for each type of grain boundary. In Fig. 5, the speciﬁc grain boundary energy for Si is plotted versus the tilt angle θ against the [110] plane. Certain Σ-values have minima of the grain boundary energy especially the Σ3  {111} twin boundary  with a tilt angle of about 70 to the [110] direction. These energetic minima correlate with the observation that twin boundaries, especially the type Σ3, have the highest frequency of occurrence compared to other types of grain boundaries. Obviously, the growing mc crystal follows the thermodynamic principle of minimizing its Gibbs free energy. It explains also the observation that grain boundaries with lower symmetry split into grain boundaries with higher symmetry, for example, R ! Σ3 + Σ27 (see Fig. 6 on the left). Another often observed phenomenon is the split of low energy grain boundaries from nonperfect Σ grain boundaries or grain boundaries with higher energy, e.g., R ! R* + Σ3 (see Fig. 6 on the right). In these cases, the gain in grain boundary energy is obviously larger than the extra energy for the extension of the grain boundary length. Decoration of Grain Boundaries with Impurity Atoms The Gibbs free energy of a grain boundary can also be reduced by incorporation of foreign atoms, i.e., impurity atoms. This process is driven by thermodynamics but controlled by kinetics. The diffusive transport of the impurity atoms from the interior 51 33 19 27 9 59 11 41 3 17 3 33 11 9 27 33 S Fig. 5 Grain boundary energy in Si in dependence on tilting angle θ against [110] direction. The corresponding values of Σ are given at the top. θ = 0 and θ = 180 correspond to Σ = 1. Values after Kohyama et al. (1986) 596 M. Trempa et al. of a grain into the grain boundary depends on the diffusivity and the temperature  time conditions. It can be expressed in terms of a diffusion length. As a consequence, the region within the diffusion length around a grain boundary is denuded from impurity atoms which are collected within the grain boundary. The latter effect is called gettering and can lead to an increased minority charge carrier lifetime τ (see, e.g., Martinuzzi et al. 2007). Additionally, the diffusion velocity of impurity atoms is increased along grain boundaries. This can be observed in typical lifetime images of mc Si bricks or wafers (see Fig. 7 on the right) where metal atoms diffuse from the highly contaminated bottom and top into the ingot volume and cause local areas of lower lifetime at grain boundaries and dislocation clusters. The minority charge carrier lifetime τ is one of the main material parameters, which determines the solar cell performance and is often directly correlated to the concentra- tion of the impurity (mainly metal) atoms (Chap. 17, Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon). A direct clear evidence of the impurity accumulation in grain boundaries of mc-Si was given by Buonassisi et al. (2007) and is shown in Fig. 7. This result shows additionally that the metal content of grain boundaries increases with increasing CSL number Σ. However, it has to be kept in mind that the accumu- lation of speciﬁc metal atoms in grain boundaries is depending on the speciﬁc diffu- sivity of the metal in Si. This effect was studied for various contaminating metals (Cu, Fe, Ni, Ti) (Buonassisi et al. 2007). They found a clear anticorrelation between the diffusivity and the fraction of impurities inside the grain which do not reach the grain boundary. Additionally it was shown (Bauer et al. 2007) that during the movement of the solid-liquid interface during the crystal growth process, carbon and nitrogen atoms Fig. 6 Splitting of low symmetry grain boundaries into high symmetry grain boundaries during growth of mc Si, measured on a cut parallel to the growth direction. The colors represent the different grain boundary types; Σ3 (red), Σ9 (yellow), Σ27 (green), and R (purple). ( Fraunhofer IISB) 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 597 can be enriched in grain boundary grooves and lead to the formation of SiC and Si3N4 ﬁlaments along the grain boundary (compare Fig. 8). Impact of Grain Boundaries on Electronic Properties The most important impact of grain boundaries on solar cell performance is via its inﬂuence on the lifetime τ of the minority charge carriers. This effect is related to the classical Shockley-Hall-Read recombination mechanism of dangling bonds which are occurring at certain types of grain boundaries, dislocations, and metallic impurities accumulated within grain boundaries. The inﬂuence of grain bound- aries on τ depends on their type and decoration by metallic impurities. Contam- inated grain boundaries are decreasing τ mainly because of the metal impurities which form deep recombination levels in the Si band gap. Such contamination- related problems including electric short cuts by decorated grain boundaries can 0 20000 40000 60000 80000 Σ3 Σ9 Σ27 Other CSL Metal content at grain boundary [XRF cts./s] Non-CSL 10 mm Fig. 7 Left: Accumulation of metal atoms at grain boundaries detected by X-ray ﬂuorescence analysis for various types of grain boundaries. After Buonassisi et al. (2007). (Right) Lifetime image of a vertical section of an industrial mc Si brick from bottom (below) to top end. ( Fraunhofer IISB) Fig. 8 SEM images of Si3N4 and SiC ﬁlaments along grain boundaries in mc silicon. After Bauer et al. (2007) 598 M. Trempa et al. generally be reduced by the corresponding purity of the Si feedstock (Chap. 2, Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods) and proper puriﬁcation measures during the DS process. Pure, i.e., noncontaminated grain boundaries are con- sidered to be less or even not harmful for τ. This holds at least for low Σ type grain boundaries, compare (Tsurekawa et al. 2007). Other grain boundary types may have also an inﬂuence on the mobility of the charge carriers, e.g., by scattering due to the potential barriers. Dislocations and Grain Boundaries Crystal defects in the form of dislocations are of enormous importance for the performance of Si solar cells (Chap. 18, Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Disloca- tions) Dislocations are mainly generated at grain boundaries during the solidiﬁca- tion at the solid-liquid interface and can only be avoided reliably by growing a single crystal. That means the formation of grain boundaries in mc-Si is inherently connected with the formation and existence of dislocations. It was already shown in section Classiﬁcation and Types of Grain Boundaries that small angle grain boundaries can be considered as an array of dislocations (compare Fig. 2). Also any deviations of grain boundaries from the ideal CSL criterion can be attributed to dislocations. Only perfect twin boundaries (means a deviation angle θ = 0) like Σ3, Σ9, and Σ27 are free of dislocations. Therefore, it is not surprising that dislocations in mc-Si can be distributed very inhomogeneously according to the wide variety of different grain boundary types and especially due to the different orientations of glide planes in the neighboring grains in this material. Experimental results show that the density of dislocations and especially the formation of so-called dislocation clusters are strongly depending on the orientation of the grains with respect to the direction of solidiﬁcation and to the orientation of neighboring grains. This can lead to a distribution where grains with a dislocation density of higher than 106 cm2 are close to nearly dislocation-free grains. In summary, one can state that one important prerequisite for producing high quality mc-Si based solar cells consists in a selection of such grain boundaries which do not provoke the formation and multiplication of dislocations within the grown Si ingot. Therefore, the nowadays typically used solidiﬁcation processes for mc Si will be analyzed in detail with respect to the inﬂuence of the thermal boundary conditions and the seeding speciﬁcations on the formation of speciﬁc grain boundaries and the related dislocations (see section Formation of Grain Boundaries During Directional Solidiﬁcation (DS)). Prior to that, the important methods of characterizing grain boundaries will be introduced. Characterization of Grain Boundaries Overview Grain boundaries in Si can be characterized by a variety of methods. The selection of the proper method depends on the aim and the expenditure which can be made. A qualitative visualization of grains and grain boundaries is possible by viewing 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 599 the light which is reﬂected from a metallographically treated Si surface. This effect is due to the optical property of a crystalline Si surface that its reﬂectance is depending on the crystallographic orientation. Such pictures can be evaluated by image processing to provide data like the statistical distribution of the grain size or the total length of the grain boundaries. A quantitative evaluation of the crystal- lographic orientations of certain grains is possible by electron or X-ray diffraction methods. By combining the crystallographic orientation of various grains with their local position on a wafer, it is possible to display the grain boundaries according to their types, for example, in the CSL notation. This kind of charac- terization is very helpful for the optimization of solidiﬁcation processes and will be used extensively in the section Formation of grain boundaries during direc- tional solidiﬁcation (DS). So far the methods of characterization mentioned above relate mainly to the geometry and crystallographic orientation relations of grains and grain boundaries. Beyond that a variety of characterization tools is available which can be used to analyze material properties which are relevant for solar cells in relation to certain orientation and size of grains, types of grain boundaries, and their distribution. Among these methods are photoluminescence (PL), electron beam induced current (EBIC), X-ray diffraction, and electron microscopy (SEM, TEM). Table 1 gives an overview of the various characterization methods in relation to the objectives. More details are presented in the following sections. Table 1 Characterization of grain boundaries Objective Method Visualization of grains and grain boundaries Optical microscopy after (chemo-) mechanical treatment & defect selective etching (also small angle grain boundaries and dislocations visible) Optical reﬂection analysis after metallographic treatment (only large angle grain boundaries visible) Evaluation of grain size, distribution and total grain boundary length Image processing of reﬂection images Recording and determination of grain orientations on a sample surface (orientation map) Calibrated reﬂection image Electron back-scatter diffraction (EBSD) X-ray diffraction (Laue method) Evaluation of types of grain boundaries and their local distribution EBSD mapping (for small samples!) Laue Scanner (for full wafer size) Evaluation of grain boundaries with a very high local resolution (down to atomic scale) X-ray topography (XRT) Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) Local evaluation of electronic properties in correlation with grain structure and grain boundaries Photoluminescence (PL) Electron beam induced current (EBIC) 600 M. Trempa et al. Optical Grain Detection and Analysis The grain structure of a mc-Si sample or wafer, respectively, is already visible by the naked eye after sawing. This is due to the dependence of the reﬂectivity of visual light from the crystallographic orientation of a certain grain surface. The precision and information value of the optical grain detection can be improved by using a metallographic treatment (e.g., grinding, lapping) of the surface, an accompanied wafer texturing step and/or image processing. A state of the art in-line grain structure inspection requires fast measuring times and is therefore mostly limited to reﬂection measurements on as-sawn or textured wafers. To visualize in detail crystallographic features like small and large angle grain boundaries as well as single dislocations (so-called etch pits), a number of etching solutions is reported in literature with different etching behavior (e.g., nonisotropic or isotropic). A selection of etchants is compiled in Table 2 together with their recipes and the applicability for different electrical resistivity ranges and grain orientations. Table 2 Si etchants for grain boundary analysis after Sirtl and Adler (1961), Secco DAragona (1972), Wright-Jenkins (1977), Schimmel (1979), Yang (1984), and Sopori (1984) Etchant Typical etch rate (μm/min) Resistivity range (Ωcm) Remarks Sirtl 1 HF (49%) 1 CrO3 (5 M) 3.0 on (111) Not speciﬁed Not as good for (100) orientation Secco 1 HF (49%) 1 K2Cr2O7 (0.15 M) 1.5 on (100) 4300 Wright-Jenkins 60 ml HF (49%) 30 ml HNO3 (69%) 30 ml CrO3 (5 M) 2 g Cu(NO3)2 60 ml CH3COOH (100%) 60 ml H2O 1.0 on (100) 0.0220 Not as good for dislocations, especially on (100) Schimmel 2 HF (49%) 1 CrO3 (5 M) 1.8 on (100) 0.615 (modiﬁed Schimmel etch 0.6) Yang 1 HF (49%) 1 CrO3 (1.5 M) 1.5 on (100) 1.5 on (111) At least 0.520 Better for dislocations than Wright Sopori 36 HF (49%) 12 HNO3 (70%) 20 CH3COOH (100%) 520 on all surfaces At least 0.116 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 601 The number of dislocation-related etch pits per wafer area is called etch pits density (EPD, unit 1/cm2) and is an important value for characterizing the material quality with respect to photovoltaic performance (see previous chapter of this handbook). Optical Microscopy for Local Investigation of the Silicon Sample with High Resolution After defect selective etching, the EPDs as well as small and large angle grain boundaries can be studied by optical microscopy in the reﬂection mode (see Fig. 9). This method provides a resolution in μm range and is of special importance for the study of dislocations and dislocation clusters in correlation with certain types of grain boundaries. This topic will be extensively discussed in the section Forma- tion of grain boundaries during directional solidiﬁcation (DS). Scanning Electron Microscopy and Transmission Electron Microscopy for Local Investigation of the Silicon Sample with Higher and Ultra High Resolution For more detailed investigation of grain boundaries and adjacent dislocations, the Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) or the Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM) can be used. These methods provide extremely high resolutions from sub-μm to sub-nm range. By use of the TEM, even the atomic structure of grain boundaries can be observed as shown in Fig. 10. The disadvantage of these methods is the quite high effort for sample preparation. Image Processing for Evaluation of Grain Sizes and Lengths of Grain Boundaries on Full Wafer Scale The information about the grain structure of a mc-Si sample or wafer, respectively, obtained from the reﬂection patterns can be improved considerably by image Fig. 9 Nonsymmetric grain boundaries, twins, and dislocations (e.g., etch pits in the lower right region) visible after mechanical polishing and Secco etching of a mc silicon wafer. ( Fraunhofer IISB) 602 M. Trempa et al. processing. In a ﬁrst step, the reﬂection image is treated to improve the image contrast between differently oriented grains as illustrated by the example in Fig. 11. Now a quantitative evaluation of the grain structure is possible by transforming a gray value image like the example in Fig. 11b into a binary grain image. The examples in Fig. 12 reveal now clearly the grain boundaries. It is important in this kind of image transformation to deﬁne the minimum number of pixels which represents one individual grain. Fig. 10 (a) TEM image of the cross-section of a twin nucleus. (b) Higher magniﬁcations of zone III of a: Σ9 {221} grain boundary, shown also in ultra high resolution by HR-TEM (lower square). Along the Σ9 interface, the highly distorted regions were followed by coherent (221) interfaces as shown in the HR-TEM magniﬁcation. After Oliveira et al. (2016) Fig. 11 Resulting images of a characterized 156  156 mm2 mc Si wafer: (a) photograph of the investigated wafer; (b) detected grain structure after image processing. ( Fraunhofer IISB) 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 603 Detailed studies in the authors group have shown that a minimum grain size of 0.05 mm2 gives reliable results. Based on this evaluation, geometrical data can be obtained like average grain size, distribution of grain size, and length of the grain boundaries on full wafer scale. For example, the quantitative evaluation of the grain structure of Fig. 12 results in an average grain size of 1.1 mm2 with a standard deviation of 1.6 mm2 for the ﬁne grain structure (a) and 6 mm2 with a standard deviation of 16 mm2 for the coarse grain structure (b). Obviously, the ﬁne grain structure is more uniform than the coarse one. Such kind of data may already be useful for the development of solidiﬁcation processes and industrial fabrication of mc Si wafers. Tools for an automated grain detection as described above are commercially available (Intego GmbH 2018). The evaluation of geometrical data of grain structures as described above can be useful but may be not sufﬁcient for an optimization of mc-Si with respect to solar cell performance, especially if one considers the minority charge carrier lifetime. It is known from several studies and extensively discussed in this handbook that the recombination rate of the minority charge carriers is strongly increased by disloca- tion clusters whose formation is favored by certain grain orientations and certain types of grain boundaries. Therefore, it is necessary to include the crystallographic orientation of the grains into the characterization. In principle, it is possible to use the dependence of the optical reﬂectivity from the crystallographic orientation. Sopori et al. (2011) have demonstrated that the non- isotropic KOH-etchant exposes a unique texture shape for each grain orientation which can be calibrated to provide the crystallographic orientations. It was shown that such reﬂecting maps of a mc-Si sample can be transformed into orientation maps. Fig. 12 Binary grain image of 156  156 mm2 wafers for a ﬁne grained structure (a) and a structure with large grains (b). ( Fraunhofer IISB) 604 M. Trempa et al. More common and effective, however, are diffraction methods like electron beam back scatter diffraction (EBSD) and X-ray diffraction (Laue method) for determining the crystallographic orientation matrix of certain grains and relate them to their exact location within the mc texture. (The term texture refers to the phenomenon of preferred crystallographic orientation of grains in a mc material). Furthermore, the unique allocation of grain orientation and the correlation to its position is the prerequisite for a determination of the type of grain boundary between two neighboring grains. This topic is subject of the following section. Orientation Mapping and Determining Grain Boundary Types Electron Beam Back Scatter Diffraction (EBSD) The principle of EBSD is based on the detection of electrons which are back scattered from a sample surface that is irradiated by a focused electron beam. The backscattered electrons escaping the sample surface may exit at the Bragg condition which is related to the periodic atomic lattice planes. Therefore, the diffraction pattern of these electrons, called Kikuchi pattern, contains the information about crystallographic (grain) orientation at the position of the incident electron beam. For more details, the reader is referred to the textbook of Randle (2003). Experimentally, EBSD is carried out in a scanning electron microscope (SEM) which must be especially equipped for EBSD. This involves the possibility of tilting the sample with respect to the incident electron beam, a detector unit consisting of phosphor screen(s), lens system, and sensitive CCD camera. The analysis of the diffraction pattern is carried out by a special pattern indexing unit. Modern EBSD systems can provide orientation maps and patterns of grain boundary types (according to CSL nomenclature). A typical result of such an EBSD analysis is shown in Fig. 13. The big advantage of EBSD is its implementation into a SEM system which allows the use of other beneﬁcial characterization units like cathodoluminescence (CL), wave length dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (WPS), and energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDX). These methods can provide an even deeper insight into the material properties in relation to the grain structure and/or type of grain =2000 μm =2000 μm 001 101 111 Fig. 13 Grain orientation map (below) as well as grain boundary types (above) (both color coded) obtained by EBSD measurements on a mc silicon wafer. The color of the grain boundaries relates to Σ3 (red), Σ5 (green), and R (purple). ( Fraunhofer IISB) 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 605 boundary. For more details about these methods, the reader is referred to the literature. EBSD is nowadays the most prevalently used characterization technique for the generation of an orientation map of a mc-Si sample, especially in combination with the further SEM-related tools for texture analysis. The main advantage of EBSD is its high spatial resolution (0.510 nm). The angular resolution is estimated to be 0.51. However, sample preparation for EBSD analysis is very time consuming because a polished sample surface with a superior quality is needed since the quality of the Kikuchi pattern is strongly dependent on the surface quality. Further, the mc-Si samples should be etched (leading again to impurities on the surface) to visualize the grain structure for the operator. More- over, the sample size is limited to the size of the SEM sample holder, due to the large inclination angle needed between the sample surface and the incoming electron beam. As a consequence, the investigation of larger Si samples, especially a standard wafer with an area of 156  156 mm is not feasible by EBSD. This disadvantage of EBSD is overcome by a method using X-ray diffraction which is described in the following. Laue Scanner Method The so-called Laue scanner system was developed in the authors laboratory (see Lehmann et al. 2014). It uses the well-known X-ray diffraction technique according to the Laue method as it is common for the determination of the crystallographic orientation of single crystals. The determination of the grain orientation map of a mc-Si wafer requires a local correlation of the position of the X-ray spot and the position of the corresponding grain. The diameter of the X-ray spot can be varied between 0.3 mm and 2 mm according to the minimum grain diameter which should be considered. The spot size of the X-ray determines the signal quality, i.e., the measurement time for one Laue pattern. For example, a beam diameter of 0.3 mm results in the measurement time per Laue pattern of 20 s. The Laue pattern of each grain is detected and evaluated automatically. The sample stage (dimension 380  400  500 mm3, maximum load 40 kg) is motorized to provide a fully automated scanning of the sample surface and allows the measurement of up to four standard size wafers (156  156 mm) per run. The shortest mapping time is achieved if one uses only one Laue measurement for each grain. This can be achieved by using the geometrical data of the grain structure which is evaluated from optical reﬂection measurements as it was described in the section Optical Grain Detection and Analysis. In the case of the Laue scanner, these data are provided by a commercial grain detector (Intego GmbH 2018). The position for the X-ray spot for each grain is selected to be the geometrical location which has the largest distance to the surrounding grain boundaries. By combining all these data, it is possible to generate an image of the grain structure of a sample where the crystallographic orientation is allocated to each grain. Based on these data, a complete representation of all grain boundaries of the grain structure can be represented in the CSL notation. A typical result of a mc-Si 606 M. Trempa et al. wafer is shown in Fig. 14. It is the same wafer which was already depicted in Fig. 11 showing the intermediate result of the grain detector within the complete Laue scanner procedure. The total time for generating the results of Fig. 14 (including Fig. 11) is about 25 h depending on the number of grains to be measured per wafer. For further details, see Lehmann et al. (2014). Characterization of Electronic Material Properties in Relation to Grain Structure and Grain Boundaries The characterization methods which were discussed in the previous sections of this chapter refer directly on the grain structure and grain boundaries with respect to their geometric parameters, crystallographic orientation or CSL type, respectively. How- ever, electronic material properties like the spatial distribution of the minority carrier lifetime in relation to the grain structure and grain boundaries are of great interest. This section gives a short compilation of characterization methods which are in use a) b) 111 101 001 313 315 115 113 112 Σ3 Σ9 Σ27 all other Σ-GBs random GBs not measured Fig. 14 Results of characterization of a 156  156 mm2 mc Si wafer by the Laue scanner (see text). Texture map of grain orientation (a) and types of grain boundaries in the CSL notation (b). ( Fraunhofer IISB) 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 607 for analyzing these material properties. For more details, the reader is referred to other chapters in this handbook and the corresponded literature. Photoluminescence Imaging Photoluminescence (PL) is based on the physical effect that excess carriers in Si  generated in PL by photo-excitation, typically by Laser illumination  can recom- bine optically, i.e., by emission of light. Any defect-correlated reduction of the photo-generated excess carriers is reducing the intensity of the PL emission which can be detected directly on the wafer scale. A typical PL characterization tool consists of a couple of exciting laser diodes (emitting in the range of about 800 nm) and a light detection unit collecting the luminescence emission by a CCD camera equipped with ﬁlters to reject the laser reﬂected light. Due to its very short measurement time (just a few seconds per wafer), PL is a very efﬁcient characterization tool which can even be used for an inline wafer inspection during solar cell production. It has been shown in literature that grain boundaries and related dislocation defects, which are correlating negatively with the open-circuit voltage of a solar cell are clearly visualized in PL images (Demant et al. 2016). PL images can also reveal an increased (or decreased) local contamination of impurities by a reduced average PL intensity. Both effects are illustrated by the examples shown in Fig. 15a, b. Similar results can be obtained with minority carrier lifetime measurements by, for example, microwave detected photoconductive decay (μ-PCD) or microwave detected photoconductivity (MDP). By stimulating the Si sample with a laser charge carriers are generated which recombine in dependence on the locally present elec- trical active crystal defects especially impurity decorated dislocations and grain boundaries. This recombination signal is detected by the intensity of reﬂected microwaves which decrease over time. As a result, the minority carrier lifetime Fig. 15 PL-images of 156  156 mm2 mc-Si wafers taken from the ingot center (a) and the ingot edge (b). ( Fraunhofer IISB) 608 M. Trempa et al. is the lower the more defected and contaminated the measured sample region is. A typical lifetime-map resulting from these methods is shown in Fig. 7 on the right. Electron Beam Induced Current (EBIC) Electron beam induced current (EBIC) is a quite feasible method to investigate the recombination strength of grain boundaries in mc-Si material. The measurement setup is typically integrated in a scanning electron microscope (SEM) which pro- vides a high resolution in the μm range but it is also limited with respect to the sample area which can be investigated. For the measurement, an electron beam locally induces charge carriers in the semiconducting material which are separated by a p-n- or Schottky-junction. At the ohmic contacts on both surfaces of the sample, a small current (in the range of μA to nA) can be measured in dependence on the recombination strength of the crystal defects. After mapping the sample gray value images can be produced by software in which a higher contrast corresponds to a higher recombination activity (smaller current). In Fig. 16, an example is shown where the recombination strength of different grain boundary types in mc Si silicon was measured in dependence on the iron contamination level. Formation of Grain Boundaries During Directional Solidification (DS) Research and development of directional solidiﬁcation (DS) of Si were driven from the very beginning by the perspective of cost reduction compared to the Czochralski (CZ) growth of Si. Mainly two aspects are behind this idea. Firstly, the upscaling of the DS process is much easier compared to the CZ process. Secondly, DS provides the possibility to avoid the expensive seeding procedure with necking and conical crystal shaping of the CZ process (see, e.g., Friedrich et al. 2015) which offers for DS an up to eight times higher throughput compared to CZ (according to Lan et al. 2017). Meanwhile several modiﬁcations of the DS process were developed. This chapter provides a detailed comparative consideration of the various variants of the DS process and its results with respect to the formation of various types of grain boundaries including dislocation defects. Previously, it was already shown how grain boundaries can inﬂuence the quality of mc-Si. It was also shown that the formation and multiplication of dislocations depend strongly on the occurrence of certain types and structures of grain boundaries. Based on this knowledge, one can formulate the following goals for the formation of a favorable grain structure in a DS process of mc Si: (i) As much as possible large grains which means a few grain boundaries, in the ideal case only one single grain, i.e., a monocrystal (ii) Preferably grain boundaries which are electrically harmless; this holds especially for twin boundaries, e.g., type Σ3. 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 609 Fig. 16 Local SE(M), EBSD, and EBIC images of different grain boundaries in mc-Si wafers which are low, medium, and heavy iron contaminated. The SE(M)-images show the GB structure, the EBSD images the GB type, and the EBIC images the electrical activity of the grain boundaries. After Chen et al. (2007) 610 M. Trempa et al. (iii) As few as possible dislocations which means preferably grain boundaries which do not provoke the generation of dislocations, i.e., grain boundaries with low stress (congruent grain boundaries). Furthermore, the grain bound- aries should impede the movement and multiplication of dislocations; this holds especially for random (R) grain boundaries, whereas twin boundaries (like Σ3) are not impeding the movement of dislocations. The outcome of the objectives i, ii, iii cannot be a unique strategy to achieve high quality of the mc material because the objectives are partly contradictory. In fact, it turns out that different strategies can be successful. In each of these routes, the nucleation at the beginning of the crystallization process plays an important role. In the beginning of the DS process development, one tried to achieve a material with as much as possible large grains (i). Here, the nucleation respectively the seeding process is initiated as usually in a DS crystal growth process by decreasing the temperature of the totally melted Si feed material with the lowest temperature at the crucible bottom. The seeding crystallization itself is beginning by a heteroge- neous nucleation at the surface of the crucible coating (standard is silicon nitride (Si3N4)) of the ﬂat crucible bottom. The Si3N4 coating is necessary to avoid the sticking of Si at the silica crucible and to reduce contamination from the crucible walls. This seeding process which results in a large amount of less harmful twin boundaries (ii) will be called further as classic mc. A further coarsening of the grain structure, i.e., increase of the grain size can be achieved by an improved thermal processing during the initial seeding phase with regard to a higher supercooling of the melt. This effect causes the preferential formation of dendrites at the crucible bottom. Therefore, this seeding process will be called further dendritic (Chap. 8, Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method). Both the classic mc and dendritic DS processes will be discussed in detail in section Coarse Grain Structures Without Seed Crystals (Classic mc and Dendritic mc). In order to generate an even more coarse grain structure with the ﬁnal goal of large monocrystalline ingot regions, a seeding variant with Si monocrystal seeds was developed. The principle idea of this technology is to combine the cost beneﬁt of DS growth with the high material quality of monocrystalline Si in order to provide a more cost effective mono Si in comparison to CZ material. For that purpose, monocrystalline Si seed plates, cut from CZ ingots, are placed at the crucible bottom in order grow a monocrystalline ingot without any grain bound- aries and also few dislocations (i + iii). However, this technology exhibited a lot of challenges like the formation of grain boundaries at the ingot periphery or the formation of small angle grain boundaries within and above the joints of the seed plates. This so-called quasi-mono silicon (QM) was for several years in the worldwide focus of the Si DS research and development (Chap. 9, Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method). A more detailed 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 611 description is given in section Towards Monocrystals by Using Monocrystalline Seeds (Quasi-Mono QM). In the course of further research and development of mc-Si growth, it was surprisingly found that a ﬁne grained texture, i.e., small grain sized mc-Si resulted in solar cells with higher efﬁciencies compared to cells made from classic mc and dendritic mc. This kind of material was henceforward called high performance mc Si (HPM) (Chap. 7, Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method). The ﬁne grained texture of the HPM material contains a high number of random (R) grain boundaries which are impeding the movement of dislocations (iii). These structural conditions can be achieved by various alternative seeding methods. One possibility is to use a ﬁne grained Si feedstock material as a seeding layer. This option needs a careful melting procedure of the feedstock in order to leave a residual layer of not melted Si for seeding (see section Fine Grain Structures with Seeding on Si Feedstock (Original HPM).). Such a bit difﬁcult step can be omitted if the coating surface of the crucible bottom can provide nucleation conditions for a ﬁne grained texture. The results of this recent development (named HPM 2.0) are presented in section Fine Grain Structures without Seeding on Si Material (HPM 2.0). Figure 17 shows a schematic representation of the ﬁve variants of seeding procedures in the DS of Si which will be discussed in the following. melt melt melt melt melt dendrite nuclei monocrystalline seeds Si nucleation layer quasi-mono HP mc twins a) b) d) c) e) HP mc functional coating/crucible Fig. 17 Schematic representation of the ﬁve important seeding variants which are used to control the formation of the grain structure in the DS of Si: classic mc (a), dendritic mc (b), quasi-mono (c), high performance mc (d), and high performance mc 2.0 (e). For details, see text 612 M. Trempa et al. Figure 17(a) represents the classic mc Si without any precautions for seeding, (b) illustrates the variant with dendrite formation on top of the crucible Si3N4 coating layer, (c) shows the quasi-mono method of seeding with monocrystalline seed crystals which comes closest to the single crystal growth of other materials like GaAs by the DS technique, and (d) and (e) display the two variants of the high performance mc material: ﬁrstly, the use of a ﬁne grained layer of Si feedstock material which needs a comparable melting process like the quasi-mono approach (d) and secondly, the use of a specially prepared incubation surface of the Si3N4 coating or the crucible (e). Figure 18 provides a graphical presentation of the different types of grain structures resulting from the DS variants sketched in Fig. 17. The ratio of the number of random (R) to twin (Σ3) grain boundaries is plotted versus the grain size (reciprocal). The ﬁve technological approaches classic mc, dendritic, quasi-mono, HPM, and HPM2.0 are represented in the diagram and will be discussed in detail in the following sections. Coarse Grain Structures Without Seed Crystals (Classic mc and Dendritic mc) In the DS processes without seed crystals, it is obvious that the formation of the grain structures, i.e., grain orientation, grain size, type of grain boundaries, as well as the formation of dislocations is decisively inﬂuenced by the initial process of self- seeding at the crucible bottom. This so-called heterogeneous nucleation means that the ﬁrst Si nuclei are forming in contact with the surface of a dissimilar material, in this case the Si3N4 layer which is coating the inner surface of the SiO2 crucible. R / Σ3 1/grain size in mm-1 5 0.5 1 0.2 1 0.5 quasi-mono 10 Fig. 18 Ratio of random to twin grain boundaries R/Σ3 (logarithmic axis) versus the reciprocal grain size for the different silicon materials grown by various variants of the DS method (see text) 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 613 The conventional or classic DS process developed in the late 1980s uses standard silica crucibles with a spray coated layer of Si3N4. The main purpose of this Si3N4 layer is to prevent the sticking of the solidiﬁed silicon with the silica crucible wall. Instead of sticking at the silica wall, the solidiﬁed Si material sticks more or less at the Si3N4 coating which separates during cooling from the silica wall depending on its properties. At the end of the cooling process also, the Si3N4 powder can be easily removed from the Si block. Ekstrøm et al. (2016a) studied the nucleation process of Si directly on the Si3N4-coating more in detail (compare Fig. 19). Typically, Si3N4-powder containing the crystallographic alpha phase is used for the crucible coating. Due to dissolution of Si3N4 and transfer of a dedicated amount of nitrogen into the liquid silicon (until the local solubility at elevated temperatures is reached), hexagonal beta Si3N4-particles are formed on top of the alpha phase based crucible coating. It is assumed that the initial Si nucleation takes place at the facets of this hexagonal beta Si3N4-precipitates. Because the Si nuclei are preferably growing at the hexagonal side, facets of the Si3N4 most preferably Σ3 grain boundaries were formed. At this point, the focus will be directed phenomenologically to the formation and development of the grain structure which results from the initial seeding. As soon as the initially isolated nuclei have been grown laterally to a length that they touch each other, the ﬁrst grain boundaries are generated. Now the crucible bottom respectively the coating is covered by a complete layer of mc Si. During the further growth of this layer, various mechanisms and phenomena can inﬂuence the grain growth and hence the formation of grain boundaries:  Grains with certain crystallographic orientations are growing preferentially (due to the differences in the surface energies depending on the crystallographic orientation) (see the example in Fig. 20)  Grain boundaries with a low energy are preferentially growing. This holds especially for the twin Σ3 boundary (see Fig. 21). Fig. 19 (a) SEM images of the bottom surface of a mc silicon ingot after Sopori etching which has removed almost the complete residual Si3N4 coating. (a) Shows regions of physical contact between the particle-layer and the solidiﬁed silicon. (b) Facetted beta Si3N4 particles which are embedded into the silicon. After Ekstrøm et al. (2016) 614 M. Trempa et al.  Grain boundaries with a high energy can be converted into grain boundaries with a lower grain boundary energy (compare Fig. 6).  Dislocations are present a priori along small angle grain boundaries (see below Fig. 28).  Dislocation lines are spreading across certain grain boundaries, like Σ3 (see, e.g., Fig. 22 left).  Dislocation lines can be blocked by certain grain boundaries (see, e.g., Fig. 22 right).  Dislocations can be generated by grain boundaries with a high stress caused by incoherency of the adjacent lattices (see, e.g., Fig. 23). The grain structure resulting from the classic mc process is a resulting mixture of all the phenomena speciﬁed above. It has typically an average grain size of 4 mm2 and a fraction of R-type boundaries to Σ3 boundaries between 0.5 and 0.25 (compare Fig. 18). Figure 24 shows an image of such a grain structure. One characteristic feature of this structure is the preferred elongation of the grains along the direction of growth or solidiﬁcation, respectively. It is also obvious from Fig. 24a that certain grains have a preferred growth and are overgrowing other grains. A generally observed problem of this grain structure is the occurrence of grains with a very high dislocation density (EPD  106 cm2), as shown in Fig. 24b. The PL image illustrates the deleterious effect of the dislocations by the strongly reduced PL intensity. There are hints in the literature that the generation of dislocations could Fig. 20 Examples of the growth of grains with a preferential orientation (111, 115, and 112): sections perpendicular to the axis of solidiﬁcation at three different heights (9, 31, and 62 mm) of a G0 ingot. ( Fraunhofer IISB) Fig. 21 Examples of the growth of grains with preferential twin boundaries (Σ3): sections perpendicular to the axis of solidiﬁcation at three different heights (9, 31, and 62 mm) of a G0 ingot. ( Fraunhofer IISB) 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 615 be provoked by the stress generated by the formation of incoherent type R grain boundaries, see, e.g., Fig. 23 or Ryningen et al. (2011). In summary, the resulting grain structure discloses the advantages as well as the problems of the classic mc material with respect to the performance of solar cells. Relatively large grains are meaning a low number of harmful grain boundaries. The Σ3 grain boundaries with its high percentage do not act as recombination centers for minority charge carriers. However, Σ3 grain boundaries are also not acting as barriers for the transition of dislocations lines (compare Fig. 22 left). Dislocations which are emitted from the regions with a high dislocation density are not hindered by Σ3 grain boundaries. Therefore, the classic mc material with its large areas of high dislocation density has decisive limitations with respect to an application of high performance solar cells. Fig. 22 White light microscopy images of dislocation lines which are: (left) spreading across Σ3 twin boundaries and (right) blocked by R-type grain boundaries. ( Fraunhofer IISB) Fig. 23 SEM picture of R-type grain boundaries with adjoining region of high dislocation density. The boundary triple junction seems to be the source of the dislocation formation (incoherency). ( Fraunhofer IISB) 616 M. Trempa et al. One strategy to overcome the problems of dislocation clusters is to decrease the number of incoherent grain boundaries by a distinct increase of the grain size. The publication of Fujiwara et al. (2006) was one of the ﬁrst reports about a successful coarsening of the mc grain structure by an improvement of the classic mc process. This improvement consisted mainly in an increase of the supercooling at the beginning of the seeding step followed by an increased rate of solidiﬁcation. Both measures are causing the formation of dendritic nuclei in the seeding phase and its growth in both directions, lateral on the surface of the Si3N4 coating and perpendicular to it. A typical example of the resulting grain structure is shown in Fig. 25 where the increased grain size is clearly visible. The basic cause of the dendrite formation is the relatively high supercooling (10 K) of the Si melt at the crucible bottom. This supercooling is possible due to a poor wetting of the Si3N4 surface by Si. Studies of Fujiwara et al. (2006) and Nakajima et al. (2010) have shown that the dendrites are growing parallel to the crucible bottom with the preferred crystallographic orientations 110 and 112. The preferred orientations of the growth interfaces in the direction of solidiﬁcation are the (112) and (110) planes, respectively. These relatively large elongations of the dendrites are causing the large grain sizes (up to several centimeters) at least for the ﬁrstly solidiﬁed portions of the ingot. The grain structure is characterized by a very high portion of Σ3 grain boundaries up to 80% (equals to R/Σ3  0.25, see Fig. 18) which result from the uniform dendrite orientation. More details like the selection of competing grain growth in dependence on process conditions (cooling rate, shape of growth interface, rate of solidiﬁcation) are discussed by Lan et al. (2012). Solar cells which were fabricated from dendritic mc-Si show cell efﬁciencies which are increased by nearly 1% in comparison to classic mc Si according to Nakajima et al. (2010). Despite of the positive results of the dendritic mc material, it did not prevail in industrial production. This had several reasons: the conditions for the high super-cooling which is essential for the formation of the initial dendrites Fig. 24 (a) Grain structure image of a vertical section parallel to the direction of solidiﬁcation of a G1 size ingot processed according to the classic mc conditions. The typical coarse structure with elongated grains and twins is visible. (b) PL-image of a 156  156 mm2 wafer perpendicular to the growth direction at 80 mm height of the same ingot with areas of high dislocation density (inside marked regions). ( Fraunhofer IISB) 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 617 are difﬁcult to be provided reproducibly. The necessary high cooling rates at the beginning of the solidiﬁcation step pose a certain risk for a breakage of the crucible and its containment. Furthermore, the grain structure of the mc material itself has the disadvantage that its heavily twinned texture does not prevent the spreading and multiplication of dislocations. In consequence, the beneﬁt of the dendritic structure is lost after some centimeters of growth. Finally, according to the authors results, it seems doubtful whether a successful upscaling beyond ingot heights of 300 mm with the growth of large grains with only few dislocations could be possible. A further improvement of the material quality by increasing the grain size is possible by using monocrystalline Si seeds. This will be the subject of the following section. Towards Monocrystals by Using Monocrystalline Seeds (Quasi-Mono QM) The idea of the quasi-mono (QM) technology was not new in the end of 2000s when it has come into the ﬁeld of interest of nearly all Si wafer producers who dealt with the directional solidiﬁcation technique. The use of a monocrystalline Si plate which is placed at the crucible bottom (see Fig. 17c) in order to grow in the best case a real monocrystal or at least an ingot with only a few grain boundaries (quasi-mono) was ﬁrstly published in the end of the 1970s by Schmid (1975) and Helmreich (1980). However, a serious development of this technology for producing industrial Si monocrystals for PV application has started only in 2007 (Stoddard 2009; Stoddard et al. 2008). The main nominal beneﬁts in comparison to the classic mc or dendritic mc Si as well as the mono CZ-material are: Fig. 25 Image of a typical dendritic grain structure of a bottom near 156  156 mm2 wafer of a G1 ingot which was grown with higher cooling rates in comparison to the classic mc. ( Fraunhofer IISB) 618 M. Trempa et al. (a) A higher wafer quality due to the absence of crystal defects like grain boundaries and dislocations (i.e., approaching the structure and properties of CZ-Si) (b) Better light capturing properties after alkaline texturing due to its uniform 100 surface orientation (at the same level as CZ-Si) (c) A lower oxygen content compared to CZ-Si (d) Less production costs in comparison to the more cost intensive monocrystalline CZ-material All of these beneﬁts should make the QM material to be competitive, to be better, or even to replace the mono CZ-Si for PV application. However, it turned out pretty soon that the growth of a 100% monocrystalline ingot by this technique is rather complicated. In the following, the main problems or tasks, respectively, during the growth of QM Si material are listed: (a) Seeding control: Analogue to the HPM technology (see section Fine Grain Structures with Seeding on Si Feedstock (Original HPM)), it has to be taken sure that the monocrystalline seed plate is partly melted but not completely melted. This means a more complicated seeding processes in comparison to the classical mc approach (Camel et al. 2009). (b) Parasitic nucleation at crucible walls: In contrast to a CZ crystal, the ingot in a DS process grows in contact with the crucible side walls. Here heterogeneous nucleation can take place in the same way as during the classic mc growth. This results in the growth of a multigrain structure in the regions of the side walls which reduces the monocrystalline ingot volume (Trempa et al. 2012). (c) Dislocation formation within the bulk and/or the surface of the monocrystal- line seed plate: Dislocations can be formed during heating up within the seed plates due to thermal stress and/or mechanical load of the feedstock on top and can propagate into the grown ingot volume (Trempa et al. 2016). See Fig. 26. (d) Formation of small angle grain boundaries (SAGB) and dislocations at the seed joints: According to the crystallographically non-exact aligning of the seed plates, SAGBs and subsequently dislocations are formed and spread into the ingot volume (Trempa et al. 2014). (e) Iron contamination of the seed crystals  means increased bottom red zone: The original high purity seed plates cut from CZ ingots are contaminated with metals, e.g., iron, already during the heating phase which is leading to an enhanced contamination of the bottom region of the QM Si ingot (Trempa et al. 2015a). Two of these problems (b and d) will be treated in the following in more detail because they are directly correlated to the occurrence of unwanted grain boundaries within the QM material. Concerning the parasitic grain growth at the crucible walls, it could be found that it is determined by two mechanisms, see, e.g., Trempa et al. (2012). Firstly, the 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 619 classical mc-grain nucleation occurs at the Si3N4 coating at the crucible walls or at the outer bottom regions where no seed crystals are placed. Secondly, a twinning process occurs at the edges of the monocrystalline Si seed plates itself. Both phenomena are illustrated in Fig. 27 which shows a grain orientation mapping of an industrially grown QM Si wafer taken from an edge brick. It can be seen that the twin orientation 221 (bright blue) is directly connected to the seed orientation 100 (red), whereas the nonuniformly oriented mc grain structure which is induced by the crucible coating is located in the most outer wafer regions. Two approaches were studied in order to overcome this problem. The most frequently used one is to adjust the shape of the solid-liquid-phase boundary in the edge regions to be of slightly convex shape in order to achieve a preferred growth direction of the mc-grains towards the crucible walls. So the range of the mc-grain growth can be limited to a size of a few millimeters. The avoidance of the formation of twins is rather difﬁcult and cannot be solved by only adjusting the phase boundary shape. Hence, a second approach was proposed by Kutsukake et al. (2013). They found out that the use of so-called functional grain boundaries, which are induced by seed crystals with a certain lateral orientation in the periphery regions of the ingot, can avoid the inclining growth of Σ3 twin boundaries. The extra seed near the 210 mm 80 mm 500 μm 500 μm 1.25 mm 1.25 mm seed feedstock seed-plate not molten feedstock (chunks) a b c d Fig. 26 Vertical sections parallel to the direction of solidiﬁcation of an G1 ingot grown by using a monocrystalline seed plate (upper surface is marked by the dotted green line) and Si chunks as feedstock material. (a) Grain structure image of the bottom part of the ingot showing the seeding interface (curved dotted red line) which is unintentionally laying within the feedstock material. (bd) White light microscopy images of the interface between the seed plate and the unmelted chunks (dotted green line) revealing the dislocation arrangements (c, d) which are caused by the indentation of particle tips. After Trempa et al. (2016) 620 M. Trempa et al. crucible wall is blocking the Σ3 twin boundaries by the aid of a Σ5 grain boundary. This technique was successfully demonstrated for ingots with 400 mm edge length corresponding to a G3 scale by Kutsukake et al. (2014). The other challenge in the growth of high quality QM Si ingots is the formation of dislocations at the seed joints. Due to the fact that no monocrystalline seed plates in dimensions of 1m2 are available from Cz-growth or other techniques, the industrial producers have to use an arrangement of several seed plates which are placed directly to each other on the crucible bottom like ﬂoor tiles, sometimes called split seeds. The gaps between the split seeds are growing together within or just above the gaps by forming small angle grain boundaries (SAGB). The cause for the SAGB formation is the very small (unavoidable) mismatch of both Si lattices of the two neighboring seed plates by 1. These SAGBs are forming an array of dislo- cations along the direction of solidiﬁcation in the region above the seed joints. The dislocations multiply and widely spread into the ingot volume as it is shown by the microscopic views of an etched lab-scale sample in Fig. 28 as well as by PL images of a G1 ingot in Fig. 29. In consequence, the material quality and ﬁnally also the cell efﬁciency was even worse in these dislocated ingot regions. A lot of investigations were made by different researchers in order to solve this problem. However, it was found that even very careful positioning of the seed plates or a chemical surface treatment of the side faces does not lead to good results. Finally, it was found that even very small relative misorientations between two adjacent seeds below 1 still result in a tremendous dislocation formation (Trempa et al. 2014; Trempa 2014; Oliveira et al. 2014; Ekstrøm et al. 2015). Only if the mismatch could be kept 0.1, the dislocation formation could be signiﬁcantly reduced. However, this condition is quite difﬁcult to be reproducibly achieved in Fig. 27 Orientation mapping of an industrially grown 156  156 mm2 QM Si wafer from an edge brick (left). The red dot marks the edge position of the G5 ingot. The colors represent the grain orientation according to the Euler triangle (right). After Trempa (2014) 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 621 Fig. 28 Optical micrographs of a Jenkins-etched vertical (a) and horizontal (b) cut. The axial seed orientation and the gap planes are 110 and {100} oriented. The arrows at the bottom of (a) depict the seed edges which deﬁne the gap width A (10 mm), B (5 mm) and C (1 mm). The bold blue arrow at the left periphery shows the position of the seeding interface. The red dotted line marks the vertical position of the horizontal cut shown in (b). The arrows at the bottom of the horizontal cut (b) depict the original seed wall positions. After Trempa et al. (2014) Fig. 29 PL images of vertical and horizontal sections cut from a G1 quasi-mono Si ingot parallel (left) and vertical (right) to the growth direction. The seeds joints are marked by arrows. ( Fraunhofer IISB) 622 M. Trempa et al. an industrial production environment. One practical option could be to use rectan- gular seed plates instead of squared ones to reduce the number of gaps and to be very careful during seed preparation and positioning. Grain Boundary Engineering The problem of the slightly misoriented Σ1 or SAGBs, respectively, with its related dislocation cascades can be overcome by using alternative orientations of the split seeds which are not causing SAGBs but certain types of large angle grain boundaries that do not result in the formation of dislocations. This alternative approach was ﬁrstly proposed by Trempa et al. (2015b) in a laboratory scale. It was found that the more nonsymmetric the grain boundary is, the less dislocations are formed. For example, a Σ33 grain boundary or a R grain boundary prohibit the formation of dislocations whereas a nonperfect Σ3 twin grain boundary induces a high amount of dislocations. Figures 30 and 31 illustrate these results. Fig. 30 (a) Optical micrograph of the grain boundary region of an etched vertical cut ranging from the crystal bottom to the top. The area (rectangle) close to the horizontal seeding interface (IF, red dotted line) is shown in a higher magniﬁcation in (b). The grain boundary structure at 50% of the crystal height (dashed blue line) is illustrated in (d) by a section of a horizontal cut. The area within the bigger green rectangle in (a) is shown in (c) in a higher magniﬁcation. After Trempa et al. (2015b) 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 623 For practical use of this method, it has to be noticed that the various seed plates have to reveal different orientations. Hence, in case of an industrial application, a large amount of seed material is needed which must be cut from CZ crystals in directions which are diagonal to the cylinder (growth) axis. This means considerably increased expenses for an industrial production. Secondly, for securing the beneﬁcial texturing effect of a homogeneously oriented material in growth direction, the orientation of adjacent seed plates should be identical parallel to the growth direction (typically 100). Considering these items, Hu et al. (2015) presented the approach to induce large angle grain boundaries by rotating the seed pieces around their vertical axis by keeping the 100 growth orientation. It was demonstrated in G5 ingot dimensions (870 mm edge length) that by keeping intentional twist angular deviation of 1045 of the adjacent seeds, the formation of dislocation and SAGBs could be almost Fig. 31 (a) Optical micrograph of the Σ33 grain boundary region of an etched vertical cut ranging from the crystal bottom to the top. The area (red rectangle) close to the horizontal seeding interface (IF, red dotted line) is shown in a higher magniﬁcation in (b). The grain boundary structure at 50% of the crystal height (dashed blue line) is illustrated in (c) by a section of a horizontal cut. The area within the bigger green rectangle in (a) is shown in (c) in a higher magniﬁcation. After Trempa et al. (2015b) 624 M. Trempa et al. completely suppressed. In consequence, the defect-related areas in the whole ingot could be signiﬁcantly reduced resulting in higher solar cell efﬁciencies of +0.6% absolute. An alternative approach also considering the above listed items is the so-called SMART-approach (seed manipulation for artiﬁcially controlled defect technique) ﬁrstly proposed by Takahashi et al. (2015) where two very narrow seed pieces of different orientation are placed between the large regular seed plates which exhibit the original orientation. Instead of one, now three grain boundaries were introduced. The middle one is intentionally conﬁgured as a small angle grain boundary gener- ating dislocations in order to reduce the stress in the ingot. The two outer ones are conﬁgured as large angle grain boundaries which should prohibit the internal generated dislocations and do not emit such by itself. However, also here several times it is observed that the large angle grain boundaries are growing diagonally and annihilate each other or enlarge the area with the unfavorable second orientation, respectively. In summary, the material which can be produced by this technology is not really a monocrystalline material but more a Quasimono-crystalline (QM) material containing SAGBs and dislocations. Therefore, good QM material can only be an alternative to mono CZ-Si, but cannot replace it. Actually, the worldwide activities in the ﬁeld of the QM technology are nearly completely shut down. The main reason might be the described dislocation formation above the seed joints which could not be avoided under conditions which are adequate from technical and economical point of view to an industrial production, so far. However, there are still companies working on this technology. Another reason why the work on QM processes was reduced a few years ago is the emergence of a new mc Si material type within the last years which is called high performance mc-Silicon (HPM) and reveals similar material properties like the QM-Si (Kutsukake et al. 2015). The HPM material including its production technologies are described in detail in the next two sections. Fine Grain Structures with Seeding on Si Feedstock (Original HPM) Since the year 2011 it was reported in the literature that mc Si with an average grain structure of 14 mm2, which is considerably smaller than classic mc, yields in a notable increase of cell efﬁciencies up to 1% (Yang et al. 2015; Lehmann et al. 2016). Because of this improvement, the ﬁne-grained PV Si is denoted since that time as high performance mc silicon (HPM). The ﬁrst HPM resulted rather accidentally during the development of the den- dritic casting method. It was found by Lan et al. (2012) that certain undercooling rates, which are between that of the classic mc and the dendritic mc, are leading to a ﬁne grained structure at the bottom end of the ingot as well to a reduced dislocation density over the ingot height. However, the process window providing the slight undercooling which is required for the formation of the little grains is rather small. For that reason, this process was not enough reproducible for large-scale production. 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 625 Nevertheless, the interest in the HPM material remained high and stimulated further research on the growth of Si ingots with small-sized grains. A reproducible seeding procedure to achieve this kind of material is ﬁrstly reported by Lan et al. (2017). They used a layer of small Si chips or chunks, respectively, at the bottom of the crucible as seeds. This Si seeding layer is in fact a part of the Si feedstock material which makes the process step of the feedstock melting more difﬁcult. The crucible heating must now be controlled  similar to the quasi-mono process (see Fig. 17 and section Towards Monocrystals by Using Monocrystalline Seeds (Quasi-Mono QM))  in order to leave an unmelted layer of the feedstock material. In comparison to the classic mc and the dendritic mc described in section Coarse Grain Structures Without Seed Crystals (Classic mc and Dendritic mc), it is obvious that the mean grain size with typical values of 14 mm2 at the ingot bottom is quite smaller in the HPM material (compare Fig. 12a). In addition, the fraction of R-type grain boundaries is increased up to 7075% in the HPM material whereas the number of twin grain boundaries is drastically decreased. This results in an even higher ratio of R/Σ3  3 as sketched in Fig. 18. Finally, the HPM material exhibits quite lower dislocation content than classic mc Si material. All in all these structural properties of the HPM material are responsible for less areas of reduced minority carrier lifetime over the whole ingot volume and consequently also for higher cell efﬁciencies in comparison to classic mc Si wafers. As a variety of feedstock materials are available on the market, one has to consider for the seeding layer several aspects. Firstly, the size and geometry of the particles have a strong inﬂuence to the penetration behavior of the Si melt into the seeding layer. Secondly, the particles and their microstructure have a direct inﬂuence on the grain structure which is growing on top of them. In a study of the authors group (Reimann et al. 2016), the use of various seeding feedstock materials like ﬂat chips, edgy chunks, roundish granules or Si powder varying in size from μm to cm scale and also in microstructure (mono or multi) was investigated with respect to the resulting grain structure. In cases where monocrystalline feedstock material (SCS) is used, the obtained mean grain size decreases with decreasing feedstock particle size, because each single feedstock particle acts as one monocrystalline seed, as shown in Fig. 32 on the left. Consequently the number of grains and also the number of grain boundaries increase the smaller the feedstock particles are. Further, the distribution of grain boundary types in such ingots is changed from a high ratio of twin/R (classic mc) to a high ratio of R/twin (HPM). In consequence, the relative length of R grain boundaries is quite higher than in the classic mc reference material. This is caused by the randomly distributed grain orientations which are predetermined by the feed- stock particles. This is in contrast to the preferred grain orientations occurring during classic mc or dendritic mc growth (see section Coarse Grain Structures Without Seed Crystals (Classic mc and Dendritic mc)). Thereby, the smaller the grains and the more new grain boundaries are generated, the higher is the fraction of R grain boundaries. Reimann et al. (2016) have shown that it can increase up to 65% if feedstock particles are used with a size 1 mm. 626 M. Trempa et al. Due to availability and purity issues, the more widespread approach is to use multicrystalline feedstock particles. The two main variants are Si chunks coming from the Siemens (SIE) process and roundish Si granules produced in a ﬂuidized bed reactor (FBR). For those materials, the particle size does not inﬂuence the grain structure properties in that way as it is the case for the monocrystalline feedstock particles. The resulting R grain boundary fraction in the material seeded on SIE particles with a size between 0.2 and 15 mm as well as seeded on FBR granules with a size between 0.5 and 15 mm is on the same (constant) high level of 6075% which is comparable to the value achieved with the monocrystalline particles with a size 1 mm. This can be related to the multicrystalline microstructure of the SIE and FBR material. According to their production processes, the feedstock particles exhibit internal grain sizes of 70270 μm for Siemens and 700 μm for FBR material (Ekstrøm et al. 2016b). All of these micrograins which come into contact with the Si melt act as nucleation centers and in consequence the mean size of the grains grown on top of the seed particles is in the same range as the dimensions of their microstructure (compare Fig. 32 on the right). However, the gaps between the Fig. 32 Detailed images of vertical sections parallel to the direction of solidiﬁcation with grain structures near the seeding position for: monocrystalline seed particles (left) and multicrystalline seeds (right). SCS single crystalline silicon, FBR ﬂuidized Bed Reactor, SIE Siemens process. After Reimann et al. (2016) 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 627 particles which were ﬁlled by Si melt are leading to relatively larger grains and therefore the resulting overall grain size is in the range of 13 mm2. As mentioned above, the high number of randomly oriented grains leads to a high fraction of R grain boundaries of more than 60% in the HPM material. These R-type grain boundaries are impeding the propagation of dislocations (see above). This property together with the small grain size are the main causes for the lower dislocation content and the signiﬁcantly reduced wafer area covered by dislocation clusters in comparison to the classic mc Si material. An experimental proof of this correlation is shown in Fig. 33 for laboratory- scale HPM Si ingots. The fractional amount of areas with dislocation clusters, i.e., an etch pit density (EPD)  105/cm2, is plotted versus the R grain boundary fraction. Obviously, the area fraction of highly dislocated regions can be suppressed below 10% if a high R grain boundary fraction around 70% is present in the HPM material. Unfortunately, the positive effect of the R grain boundaries in HPM material diminishes more and more with increasing ingot height. It was found that the grain structure properties as well as the fractional amount of highly dislocated wafer area of classical mc and HPM wafers cut from the top regions of industrial ingots does not differ in such a way as it does in the bottom regions (Lehmann et al. 2016). Further, it was observed for industrial HPM ingots (e.g., by Lan et al. 2017) as well as for lab-scale HPM ingots (e.g., by Trempa et al. 2017) that the fraction of R grain 10 3050 60 70 80 5 10 15 20 25 30 Multi SCS FBR SIE ] % [ n oitc a rf a e r a ² m c/ 5 E 1  D P E random grain boundary length fraction [%] Fig. 33 Area fraction of wafer regions with etch pit densities EPD  105/cm2 versus the fractional amount of random (R) grain boundaries for wafers taken at 25 mm height from laboratory scale HPM Si ingots grown without seeds (multi), monocrystalline seeds (SCS) and multicrystalline seeds (SIE, FBR). After Reimann et al. (2016) 628 M. Trempa et al. boundaries drastically decreases within the ﬁrst third of total ingot height. The reasons for this behavior are crystallographic grain boundary reactions which are thermodynamically driven to minimize the grain boundary energy. These processes are causing the annihilation of R grain boundaries, the generation of new twin boundaries and as a consequence a decrease of the R/Σ3 ratio with increasing ingot height (Prakash et al. 2015). Trempa et al. (2017) simulated a DS process of a very large total ingot height of 710 mm by eight successive solidiﬁcation steps with the same ingot (G1 size). The goal was to study the inﬂuence of the above mentioned grain boundary reactions in HPM material in comparison to conventional classic mc Si. The result is shown in Fig. 34 in terms of the fractional amount of the different types of grain boundaries versus the total ingot height. Obviously, the grain boundary reactions take place in the ﬁrstly solidiﬁed 200 mm of the ingot height, irrespectively of the initially different distribution of grain boundary types in HPM and classic mc Si material. Above the height of about 200 mm, both types of materials (including the industrial ingot) reveal the same (constant) fractional amount of the different types of grain boundaries independently from the solidiﬁcation process. This result holds also for the fraction of the highly dislocated wafer areas which become more and more equal and match each other at an ingot height of about 300350 mm. This means that for ingot regions above 300 mm, there is no more beneﬁt of the HPM material in comparison to the classical mc Si. The main advantage of the seeding on silicon HPM growth method is the high reproducibility for the production of industrial ingots. In case that the seeding process is well controlled and suitable feedstock particles are used, the ingot manufacturer can be sure that the result will be a ﬁne grained HPM material. However, there exist also some drawbacks of this method. First, the melting process 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 ] % [ n o it c a rf h t g n e l y r a d n u o b n i a r g total ingot height [mm] 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 ] % [ n o it c a rf h t g n e l y r a d n u o b n i a r g total ingot height [mm] HPM classic mc Σ3 Σ9 + Σ27 Other Σ Random (R) Fig. 34 Fraction of grain boundary length versus total ingot height (see text) for an ingot height of: classic mc G1 size (left) and G1 HPM ingot (right). Additionally, the values for a 300 mm industrial HPM ingot (open symbols) are shown in the right image. After Trempa et al. (2017) 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 629 of the feedstock needs a more careful control in order to avoid the complete melting of the feedstock (seeding) layer and is more time consuming in comparison to the classical mc approach. A Si seed layer with a thickness of about 1020 mm is necessary because of thermal process ﬂuctuations. But it has to be mentioned that the remaining unmelted Si seed layer leads to an enlarged so-called bottom red-zone which results in an ingot part at the bottom region with a very low minority carrier lifetime value and consequently cannot be used for solar cell fabrication. Roughly spoken the length of the bottom red-zone of a HPM ingot is the sum of the red-zone length of a classic mc ingot plus the thickness of the seeding layer. In summary, the yield losses of a HPM silicon ingot and a more expensive seeding procedure in comparison to a classic mc Si ingot are disadvantageous. To overcome these drawbacks, recent developments deal with seeding approaches without the use of a silicon feedstock layer, which will be the subject of the following section. Fine Grain Structures Without Seeding on Si Material (HPM 2.0) The common feature of all the new developed HPM seeding methods is to functionalize the crucible bottom in a way that the silicon feedstock can be completely melted as for the classical mc approach, but in contrast to classic mc a ﬁne grained HPM structure is obtained. In principle, there exist three different approaches for the new processing, called HPM 2.0, which can be used separately or in combination: (a) Use of foreign (i.e., not Si) seed particles which are placed at the crucible bottom embedded or on top of the Si3N4 coating (b) Modiﬁcation of the surface of the Si3N4 coating concerning, e.g., morphology, wetting behavior, or roughness (c) Modiﬁcation of the structures of the crucible bottom by using certain contours like knobs or hillocks For variant (a), it is important that the particles which support the nucleation have a higher melting point than silicon to avoid melting. Also they should exhibit a higher wettability as the surrounding Si3N4 coating in order to reduce the nucleation energy. But they must not contain harmful impurities like metals or dopants. Two materials which fulﬁll all the mentioned requirements are SiO2 and SiC. Kupka et al. (2017) have tested them by spraying or embedding SiO2/SiC particles with a size in the range of μm to mm on the bottom of G1 crucibles. The main conclusions of their results are the following:  The mean grain size in the ﬁrst grown part of the ingot decreases with increased surface roughness (Rq) of the nucleation layer and remains nearly constant at 12 mm2 for Rq  200 μm 630 M. Trempa et al.  Well wetted particles with a resulting mean grain size 4 mm2 must not coer- cively lead to a high fraction of R grain boundaries over 50% (in the case of the SiC particles)  Seed particles with low thermal conductivity are needed to achieve HPM prop- erties (in the case of SiO2 particles) In summary, SiC particles are not suitable for generating a HPM grain structure with small grains and a high fraction of R grain boundaries. Even if relatively small grains grow, comparable to the SiO2 seeding, the grain structure contains a high number of small dendrites and twins which is attributed to the high thermal conduc- tivity of the SiC particles allowing higher supercoolings. In consequence, the resulting twin fraction is quite high and the R grain boundary fraction is always below 40% for all tested SiC nucleation layers (see Fig. 35 on the right), indepen- dently from the particle size (0.75000 μm) and the coating method (embedding or spraying). In contrast to that, the SiO2 particles with their low thermal conductivity could be identiﬁed as much promising seed material. In Fig. 35 on the left, it is shown that the fraction of R grain boundaries of all SiO2 nucleation layers is signiﬁcantly higher than of the SiC particles. In best cases, a R fraction of 60% is achievable if small (3 μm) particles are used. Also on an industrial scale (G4 ingots), it was demonstrated, e.g., by Laurent et al. (2017) that the addition of small SiO2 particles at the crucible bottom as functional seeds is a successful method to achieve a HPM grain structure. In Fig. 36, a result SiO2_3_emb SiO2_225_emb SiO2_1420_emb SiO2_3380_emb SiO2_3_spr1 SiO2_3_spr2 SiC_0.7_emb SiC_500_emb SiC_1000_emb SiC_5500_emb SiC_1.7_spr1 SiC_1.7_spr2 SiC_10_spr HPM 0 20 40 60 80 100 Σ3 Σ9+Σ27 other Σ random Grain boundary length fraction [%] Fig. 35 Distribution of the grain boundary length fraction in dependence of the different used SiO2 and SiC nucleation layers. After Kupka et al. (2017) 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 631 with a relatively high fraction of R grain boundaries of 5550% over ingot height is shown. This value is even better than that of the classical mc reference (2535%) and only slightly below the conventional HPM values (6555%) which were achieved by the Si self-seeding method. After making solar cells from these ingots, it could be demonstrated that the cell efﬁciency of the HPM 2.0 cells is 0.5% absolutely higher than for the classic mc cells which matches the reported difference of conventional HPM versus classical mc in section Fine Grain Structures with Seeding on Si Feedstock (Original HPM). The second approach (b) and the third approach (c) are not easy to separate and therefore it will be considered in the following as a combination. For instance, Babu et al. (2016) presented a method where they positioned a monolayer of FBR Si feedstock granules at the bottom of a laboratory-scale crucible and coated it with a very thin layer of Si3N4. Due to the small thickness of the Si3N4 coating, the wavy morphology of the monolayer is maintained which is responsible for the nucleation behavior. A full melting process analogue to the classical mc approach was carried out up to 1470 C for 1 h. However, it is not clear whether the FBR granules remained un-melted or whether they melted and resolidiﬁed by keeping their geometry due to the solid cover of Si3N4. The ﬁnal results show that the fraction of R grain boundaries is at 55% close to the ingot bottom which is quite higher than classic mc (15 mm) classic mc (230 mm) HPM (30 mm) HPM (255 mm) HPM 2.0 (25 mm) HPM 2.0 (225 mm) 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 random other Σ Σ9+Σ27 Σ3 ] % [ n oitc a rf h t g n el y r a d n u o b nia r g Fig. 36 Relative length of various types of grain boundaries in industrial scale G4 ingots for different process conditions: Standard (classic) mc-Si (left), reference HPM-mc Si (middle), and vesuvius HPM 2.0-mc Si (right). After Laurent et al. (2017) 632 M. Trempa et al. for the classical mc reference (18%). Also it was shown on etched wafers that the amount of dislocation clusters has signiﬁcantly decreased. A similar approach was shown by Zhang et al. (2016) who proposed a mask technique which allows to grow HPM 2.0 Si ingots in industrial G6 scale (840  840 mm). In this case a hillock structure of SiO2 replaces the FBR granules used by Babu et al. (2016). Again the wavy structure was coated with a thin Si3N4 layer to prevent the adhesion of the Si ingot at the crucible/coating composite. In this case, the distribution of the grain boundary types was not investigated. However, the obtained results on solar cells imposingly show that the same cell efﬁciency distri- bution could be achieved over the whole G6 ingot with this method as for the conventional HPM approach using the seeding on mc silicon feedstock. A further similar approach was proposed by Buchovska et al. (2017) who used an industrial G5 crucible containing silica knobs at its bottom to provide a rough nucleation layer. It is not mentioned whether these silica knobs were coated with Si3N4 or not. The grain boundary types were not investigated; however, results of PL measurements of a large series of wafers over the complete ingot reveal that the dislocation content is quite comparable to that one grown by a Si feedstock seeding method. Additionally, also cell efﬁciency data show comparable values for both material types. In summary, one can state that the results obtained so far by using various approaches to replace the seeding on Si feedstock layer (original HPM) are promising. This holds for the achieved grain structures with respect to the dislocation problem and ﬁnally for the achieved cell efﬁciencies. However, it is not clear at that time which one of the different approaches has the potential to provide an increase of the material quality beyond the best HPM results. Furthermore, it needs to be evaluated which of the different approaches can be implemented into production furnaces and is compatible with the routines of a production process. Finally, it has to be demonstrated that certain reproducibility can be achieved for large ingot dimensions under production conditions. After that has been achieved, HPM2.0 can become an important DS production process which will then replace HPM and others. Conclusions for Optimization Strategies with Respect to Grain Boundary Engineering Actually, it is an open discussion, which Si material will dominate the PV market in the future. For 2017, the market share was around 20% classic mc, 40% HPM Si, and 40% mono CZ, whereas QM has not shown up in the statistics (ITRPV 2018). It seems to be sure that the high quality mono CZ material will play a signiﬁcant role also in the future. The HPM Si will completely replace the classic mc in the near 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 633 future. However, whether the HPM Si will be also present after the next 510 years or if there is a comeback of the QM Si material is still open. The possible cause is the tendency towards even higher solar cell efﬁciencies. All the modern solar cell concepts are based on monocrystalline silicon. Therefore, the gap between the efﬁciencies of mc-Si and mono Si solar cells might increase in the future, such that the cost per efﬁciency ratio for mono solar cells is superior to the mc-Si one. Therefore, it is forecasted that the share of mono Si wafers will increase in the future. Thus, wafer manufacturers have either to invest heavily in CZ pullers or to solve the existing challenges for QM silicon in order to run the industrial production of QM in the existing DS furnaces. In fact, the HPM Si and the QM Si material need to be further developed to have a chance to be competitive with the CZ material. But for both growth technologies, the future progress depends on the control of the grain boundaries appearing in these materials. In the case of the QM growth technology, the main task will be to reproducibly avoid the formation of dislocations and small angle grain boundaries induced by the seed joints. Here the grain boundary engineering with the most promising SMART-approach (see section Towards Monocrystals by Using Monocrystalline Seeds (Quasi-Mono QM)) might be the best way to solve this problem even on an industrial scale. However, it is not clear whether sufﬁcient good results could be reproducibly achieved by this method. A perspective of the authors for improving the HPM material quality is to keep the fraction of random grain boundaries as high as possible along the complete ingot height. If this can be achieved the dislocation formation and movement is even more suppressed over longer growth heights and the amount of dislocation clusters should be further reduced. However, because the grain boundary formation and annihilation is also driven by a reduction of the grain boundary energy, it will be difﬁcult to ﬁnd practical solutions to overcome this physical law. In general, for all DS growth technologies, the impurity contamination of the ingots will be an important issue in order to increase the Si material quality further. Higher purity of crucibles and Si3N4 coatings as well as cost-effective diffusion barriers between both components would be beneﬁcial and would at the same time reduce the harmfulness of the grain boundaries in the Si due to a reduced impurity decoration. Cross-References Defects in Crystalline Silicon: Dislocations Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method Metal Impurities and Gettering in Crystalline Silicon Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods 634 M. Trempa et al. References G.A. Babu, I. Takahashi, S. Matsushima, N. Usami, J. Cryst. Growth 441, 124 (2016) J. Bauer, O. Breitenstein, A. Lotnyk, H. Blumtritt, in 22nd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, Milan (2007), p. 994 D.G. Brandon, Acta Metall. 14, 1479 (1966) I. Buchovska, O. Liaskovskiy, T. Vlasenko, S. Beringov, F.M. Kiessling, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 159, 128 (2017) T. Buonassisi, M. Heuer, A.A. Istratov, M.D. Pickett, M.A. Marcus, B. Lai, Z. Cai, S.M. Heald, E.R. Weber, Acta Mater. 55, 6119 (2007) D. Camel, B. Marie, D. Ponthenier, F. Servant, in 3rd International Workshop on Crystalline Silicon Solar Cells, Trondheim (2009) J. Chen, T. Sekiguchi, D. Yang, Phys. Status Solidi C 4, 2908 (2007) M. Demant, S. Rein, J. Haunschild, T. Strauch, H. Höfﬂer, J. Broisch, S. Wasmer, K. Sunder, O. Anspach, T. Brox, Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 24, 1533 (2016) K.E. Ekstrøm, G. Stokkan, R. Søndenå, H. Dalaker, T. Lehmann, L. Arnberg, M. Di Sabatino, Phys. Status Solidi A 212, 2278 (2015) K.E. Ekstrøm, E. Undheim, G. Stokkan, L. Arnberg, M. Di Sabatino, Acta Mater. 109, 267 (2016a) K.E. Ekstrøm, G. Stokkan, A. Autruffe, R. Søndenå, H. Dalaker, L. Arnberg, M. Di Sabatino, J. Cryst. Growth 441, 95 (2016b) J. Friedrich, W. von Ammon, G. Müller, in Handbook of Crystal Growth, 2nd edn., ed. by P. Rudolph (Elsevier, Boston, 2015), p. 45 K. Fujiwara, W. Pan, N. Usami, K. Sawada, M. Tokairin, Y. Nose, A. Nomura, T. Shishido, K. Nakajima, Acta Mater. 54, 3191 (2006) D. Helmreich, in Symposium on Electronic and Optical Properties of Polycrystalline or Impure Semiconductors and Novel Silicon Growth Methods, St. Louis (Pennington, 1980), p. 184 D. Hu, S. Yuan, L. He, H. Chen, Y. Wan, X. Yu, D. Yang, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 140, 121 (2015) Intego GmbH, Gemini-Grain structure analysis (2018), https://www.intego.de/de/solar1/ pruefanlagen-fuer-die-solarfertigung/wafer/gemini-kornstrukturanalyse. Accessed 18 April 2018 ITRPV, International Technology Roadmap for Photovoltaic (ITRPV) 2017 (2018) M. Kohyama, R. Yamamoto, M. Doyama, Phys. Status Solidi B 138, 387 (1986) I. Kupka, T. Lehmann, M. Trempa, C. Kranert, C. Reimann, J. Friedrich, J. Cryst. Growth 465, 18 (2017) K. Kutsukake, N. Usami, Y. Ohno, Y. Tokumoto, I. Yonenaga, Appl. Phys. Express 6, 25505 (2013) K. Kutsukake, N. Usami, Y. Ohno, Y. Tokumoto, I. Yonenaga, IEEE J. Photovoltaics 4, 84 (2014) K. Kutsukake, M. Deura, Y. Ohno, I. Yonenaga, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 54, 8 (2015) C.W. Lan, W.C. Lan, T.F. Lee, A. Yu, Y.M. Yang, W.C. Hsu, B. Hsu, A. Yang, J. Cryst. Growth 360, 68 (2012) C.W. Lan, A. Lan, C.F. Yang, H.P. Hsu, M. Yang, A. Yu, B. Hsu, W.C. Hsu, A. Yang, J. Cryst. Growth 468, 17 (2017) J. Laurent, G. Rancoule, E. Drode, C. Reimann, M. Trempa, C. Kranert, J. Friedrich, L. Teale, R. Dyer, I. Dorrity, in 33rd European Photovoltaic Energy Specialist Conference, Amsterdam (2017), p. 305 T. Lehmann, M. Trempa, E. Meissner, M. Zschorsch, C. Reimann, J. Friedrich, Acta Mater. 69, 1 (2014) T. Lehmann, C. Reimann, E. Meissner, J. Friedrich, Acta Mater. 106, 98 (2016) S. Martinuzzi, I. Périchaud, O. Palais, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 91, 1172 (2007) K. Nakajima, K. Kutsukake, K. Fujiwara, N. Usami, S. Ono, Yamasaki, in 25th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, Valencia (2010), p. 817 V. Oliveira, M. Tsoutsouva, T. Lafford, E. Pihan, F. Barou, C. Cayron, D. Camel, in 29th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, Amsterdam (2014), p. 793 V. Oliveira, B. Marie, C. Cayron, M. Marinova, M.G. Tsoutsouva, H.C. Sio, T.A. Lafford, J. Baruchel, G. Audoit, A. Grenier, T.N. Tran Thi, D. Camel, Acta Mater. 121, 24 (2016) R.R. Prakash, K. Jiptner, J. Chen, Y. Miyamura, H. Harada, T. Sekiguchi, Appl. Phys. Express 8, 35502 (2015) 19 Grain Boundaries in Multicrystalline Silicon 635 V. Randle, Microtexture Determination and its Applications, 2nd edn. (Maney for the Institute of Materials Minerals and Mining, London, 2003) C. Reimann, M. Trempa, T. Lehmann, K. Rosshirt, J. Stenzenberger, J. Friedrich, K. Hesse, E. Dornberger, J. Cryst. Growth 434, 88 (2016) B. Ryningen, G. Stokkan, M. Kivambe, T. Ervik, O. Lohne, Acta Mater. 59, 7703 (2011) D.G. Schimmel, J. Electrochem. Soc. 126, 479 (1979) F. Schmid, U.S. Patent 3,898,051, 1975 F. Secco DAragona, Solid State Sci. Technol. 119, 948 (1972) E. Sirtl, A. Adler, Z. Metallkd./Mater. Res. Adv. Tech. 52, 529 (1961) B.L. Sopori, J. Electrochem. Soc. 131, 667 (1984) B. Sopori, D. Guhabiswas, P. Rupnowski, S. Shet, S. Devayajanam, H. Moutinho, in 36th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, Seattle (2011), p. 1680 N. Stoddard, Patent WO 2009/014957 A2, 29 Jan 2009 N. Stoddard, W. Bei, I. Witting, M. Wagener, P. Yongkook, G. Rozgonyi, R. Clark, Solid State Phenom. 131133, 1 (2008) I. Takahashi, S. Joonwichien, T. Iwata, N. Usami, Appl. Phys. Express 8, 105501 (2015) M. Trempa, Gerichtete Erstarrung von einkristallinen Siliciumkristallen nach dem VGF-Verfahren für die Anwendung in der Photovoltaik (Fraunhofer-Verlag, Stuttgart, 2014) M. Trempa, C. Reimann, J. Friedrich, G. Müller, D. Oriwol, J. Cryst. Growth 351, 131 (2012) M. Trempa, C. Reimann, J. Friedrich, G. Müller, A. Krause, L. Sylla, T. Richter, J. Cryst. Growth 405, 131 (2014) M. Trempa, C. Reimann, J. Friedrich, G. Müller, L. Sylla, A. Krause, T. Richter, J. Cryst. Growth 429, 56 (2015a) M. Trempa, C. Reimann, J. Friedrich, G. Müller, A. Krause, L. Sylla, T. Richter, Cryst. Res. Technol. 50, 124 (2015b) M. Trempa, M. Beier, C. Reimann, K. Roßhirth, J. Friedrich, C. Löbel, L. Sylla, T. Richter, J. Cryst. Growth 454, 6 (2016) M. Trempa, I. Kupka, C. Kranert, T. Lehmann, C. Reimann, J. Friedrich, J. Cryst. Growth 459, 67 (2017) S. Tsurekawa, K. Kido, T. Watanabe, Mater. Sci. Eng. A 462, 61 (2007) D.S. Vlachavas, Acta Crystallogr. A 41, 530 (1985) F. Wilhelm, J. Appl. Crystallogr. 4, 521 (1971) M. Wright-Jenkins, J. Electrochem. Soc. 124, 757 (1977) K.H. Yang, J. Electrochem. Soc. 131, 1140 (1984) Y.M. Yang, A. Yu, B. Hsu, W.C. Hsu, A. Yang, C.W. Lan, Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 23, 340 (2015) H. Zhang, D. You, C. Huang, Y. Wu, Y. Xu, P. Wu, J. Cryst. Growth 435, 91 (2016) 636 M. Trempa et al. Part V Thin Film Silicon Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 20 Ying Zhao, Xiaodan Zhang, and Baojie Yan Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 640 Fabrication of Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon and Alloy .................................. 642 Dc-PECVD ................................................................................... 643 RF-PECVD .................................................................................. 646 Vhf PECVD .................................................................................. 648 Microwave PECVD .......................................................................... 651 Hot Wire CVD ............................................................................... 652 Material Properties of Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon and Alloy .......................... 655 Structure and Electronic States .............................................................. 655 Optical Property .............................................................................. 658 Electrical Property ........................................................................... 664 Metastability of a-Si:H: Staebler-Wronski Effect ........................................... 670 Amorphous Silicon Alloy ................................................................... 673 A-Si:H Alloy Solar Cells ........................................................................ 675 Principle of a-Si:H Single-Junction Solar Cell .............................................. 675 A-Si:H Alloy p-i-n Single-Junction Solar Cell .............................................. 677 A-Si:H Alloy n-i-p Single-Junction Solar Cell .............................................. 679 A-SiGe:H Alloy Single-Junction Solar Cell ................................................ 679 A-Si:H Alloy-Based Multijunction Solar Cells ............................................. 682 A-Si:H/a-Si:H Double-Junction Solar Cell .................................................. 684 A-Si:H/a-SiGe:H Double-Junction Solar Cell .............................................. 684 A-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H Triple-Junction Solar Cell ..................................... 685 A-Si:H/c-Si Heterojunction Solar Cell (SHJ or HIT) ....................................... 685 Conclusion ....................................................................................... 687 References ....................................................................................... 689 Y. Zhao  X. Zhang  B. Yan (*) Institute of Photoelectronic Thin Film Devices and Technology, Nankai University, Tianjin, P. R. China e-mail: zhaoygds@nankai.edu.cn; xdzhang@nankai.edu.cn; baojie.yan@yahoo.com  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_27 639 Abstract From solar cell application point of view, this chapter reviews the aspects of hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H) based materials. Spear and LeComer made the ﬁrst a-Si:H ﬁlms with glow discharge by decomposing hydrogen containing gases such as SiH4, in which hydrogen atoms terminate the Si dangling bonds and reduce the defect density signiﬁcantly. The reduction of defect density lead to the possibility of doping a-Si:H to form N-type and P-type ﬁlms and made it possible to make p-n junction, which is the foundation of thin ﬁlm silicon-based electronic devices such as solar cells and thin ﬁlm transistors. Since then several methods have been developed to deposit a-Si:H materials and devices. From solar cells point of view, a-Si:H is one of the useful materials with several unique properties: (1) high absorption coefﬁcients in the visible range allowing to use a thin absorber layer, (2) large area uniform deposition for low-cost mass productions, and (3) deposition on various foreign substrates for rigid and ﬂexible solar modules. The main disadvantage of a-Si:H is the lower carriers mobility and lifetime than the crystal copartners, which result in the lower energy conversation efﬁciency in a-Si:H solar cells than c-Si solar cells. In addition, the so-called Staebler-Wronski effect causes a light-induced degra- dation in a-Si:H solar cell efﬁciency. Over the years, a-Si:H science and technol- ogy have been very well developed driving by the applications in thin ﬁlm silicon photovoltaic (PV) solar energy and large area display industries. In the PV applications, a-Si:H solar cell has been one of the most important technologies for the so-called second-generation PV solar energy. However, with the signiﬁ- cant cost reduction of poly-Si and c-Si solar panels in the last few years, a-Si:H PV industry has been shrunk to the sideline and can only provide products in the niche market. Fortunately, new application as the surface passivation layer on c-Si to form a-Si:H/c-Si heterojunction solar cells gives a-Si:H a new life in the PV industry. Keywords a-Si:H  Thin ﬁlm  Glow discharge  PECVD  Dangling bonds  Mobility  Lifetime  Absorption coefﬁcient  Staebler and Wronski effect  Flexible  Large area Introduction Hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H) as one of large area electronic materials has been widely used in the modern industry, mainly in photovoltaic (PV) solar energy and large area display such as televisions and computer monitors. The research and development of a-Si:H technology started in the middle of 1970s. Previously, most nonhydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si) materials were made mainly by physical vapor depositions (PVD) such as sputtering and thermal evap- oration (Moss and Graczyk 1969; Shevchik and Paul 1972; Temkin et al. 1973), where no hydrogen atoms are incorporated into the ﬁlms. The nonhydrogenated a-Si 640 Y. Zhao et al. have a large density of silicon dangling bond defects, normally in the order of 1018 cm3 to 1019 cm3. When doping atoms incorporated into a-Si, the additional carriers (electrons or holes) go to the defect sites and no contribution to the conduction is made. Therefore, the PVD-made a-Si does not show usefulness in electronic devices. Spear and LeComber made a remarkable invention in the middle of the 1970s. They used a glow discharge, also called plasma enhanced chemical deposition (PECVD), to decompose silane (SiH4) and form a-Si:H (Spear and LeComber 1975, 1976) and found that the materials can be doped by P to form N-type materials and by B to form P-type materials. Consequently, a p-n junction can be made, which is the fundamental structure of modern electronic devices. The major contribution for the capability of doping is hydrogen (H) atoms. Normally, about 1020 at.% H is incorporated in a-Si:H, which terminates the Si dangling bonds and reduces the defect density from 1018 cm3 to 1016 cm3. In the RCA lab, Carlson and Wronski invented the ﬁrst a-Si:H solar cell with an energy conversion efﬁciency of 2.4% (Carlson and Wronski 1976), which leads to a signiﬁcant effort to the research and development of thin ﬁlm a-Si:H solar cells. In 1980, the RCA group increased the a-Si:H solar cell efﬁciency to 8%. At the same time, the Sanyo group in Japan focused on the research and development of useful a-Si:H solar cells in consumer electronics such as watches and calculators. In the theoretical study, Anderson proposed the concept of localized electronic states in disordered solids (Anderson 1958). Mott introduced the concept of mobility edge and the localized tail states in disordered semiconductors (Mott 1966, 1967). Following the Anderson and Mott theory, Mott, Cohen, Fritzsche, and Ovshinsky proposed Mott-CFO model for electron structures and transport in amorphous semi- conductors (Mott 1967; Cohen et al. 1969), which built the foundation of electronic state structure and carrier transport theory in amorphous semiconductors and had a signiﬁcant impact on the modern large-area electronic industry. Also in the RCA lab, Staebler and Wronski observed a light-induced degradation in both the dark and photoconductivities in a-Si:H ﬁlms after light soaking (Staebler and Wronski 1977), which is called Staebler and Wronski effect or SW effect. The light-induced degradation can be annealed away and the material property returns to its initial state after thermal annealing at a high temperature such as 150C for over 1 hour. The Staebler and Wronski effect has a signiﬁcant impact on the device applications. In terms of a-Si:H solar panels, their efﬁciency decreases with time in the ﬁrst few hundred hours of installation in the ﬁeld of light soaking and then saturates. The light-induced efﬁciency reduction can be as high as 50% in single- junction a-Si:H solar cells and can also be reduced to around 510% in multijunction solar cells with optimized material quality and device design. In the a-Si:H PV technology side, the solar cell efﬁciency has been constantly improved by optimizing the material quality such as by hydrogen dilution (Guha et al. 1981; Koh et al. 1998), alloying with other elements to adjust the bandgap, and optimization of device structures. In order to cover the solar spectrum properly, hydrogenated amorphous silicon carbon alloy (a-SiC:H) was developed for wide bandgap (Tawada et al. 1982) and hydrogenated amorphous silicon germanium alloy 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 641 (a-SiGe:H) for low bandgap (Ovshinsky 1985) materials in multijunction solar cells. Yang et al. optimized a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple-junction solar cell structures and achieved initial and stable cell efﬁciencies of 14.6% and 13.0%, respectively, in 1997 (Yang et al. 1997). With the incorporation of hydrogenated nanocrystalline silicon (nc-Si:H) as the bottom cell, Yan et al. advanced the initial efﬁciency to 16.3% (Yan et al. 2011). With the continual improvement of a-Si:H solar cell and module efﬁciency, several large a-Si:H PV module production lines were built around the world, such as the BP Solar and United Solar in the USA; Fuji Electric, Canon, and Kaneka in Japan; Oerlikon/TEL Solar in Swaziland; LG Solar in South Korea. The large area module efﬁciency has reached 12% by TEL Solar (Cashmore et al. 2016). However, with the dramatic drop of crystalline silicon (both poly-Si and c-Si) PV module price, a-Si:H PV technology lost its competitiveness in the market because of the higher manufacture cost and lower energy conversion efﬁciency than poly-Si and c-Si modules. Most of the thin ﬁlm silicon PV companies went out of business in the beginning of this decade. On the other hand, a-Si:H has been used as the passivation layer on c-Si wafer to form silicon heterojunction solar cells (SHJ) or called heterojunction with intrinsic thin layer (HIT) solar cell (Taguchi et al. 1990). Recently, HIT solar cell efﬁciency has reached 25.6% in 2014 (Masuko et al. 2014) and 26.3% in 2016 (http://www.kaneka.co.jp/kaneka-e/images/topics/1473811995/ 1473811995_101.pdf), surpassed the record of 25.0% achieved with traditional homojunction c-Si solar cell (Zhao et al. 1999). The application in HIT solar cells ﬁnds the new life for a-Si:H in the PV solar energy industry. Fabrication of Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon and Alloy In the last 40 years, many deposition methods have been invented and developed for fabrication of a-Si and a-Si:H ﬁlms and devices, including PVD and chemical vapor deposition (CVD). Because CVD methods, especially PECVD, have been success- fully used in a-Si:H solar cell research and development as well as thin ﬁlm silicon PV manufacturing, we mainly introduce and discuss various PECVD methods. In principle, all of the CVD methods are with the similar chemical processes. The precursor gases such as SiH4 and H2 are introduced into an enclosed deposition chamber at very low pressure and decomposed into various Si-containing radicals such as SiH3, SiH2, SiH, and Si. The Si-containing species diffuse out from the plasma zone, reach a heated substrate, and then form a ﬁlm on the substrate surface. Depending on the energy source for decomposing the reactant gases, CVD has been divided into several categories. Commonly used in conventional semiconductor industry is thermal CVD, where the reactant gases are decomposed at a high temperature such as over 1000C. Because of the high temperature, hydrogen cannot be incorporated into the ﬁlms, therefore thermal CVD is not used for making a-Si:H ﬁlms, but for poly-Si and c-Si ﬁlms. Instead, PECVD and other low-temperature CVD methods are used for a-Si:H deposition, where additional energy sources are used to decompose the reactant gases, including direct current PECVD (DC-PECVD), radio frequency PECVD (RF-PECVD), very high frequency 642 Y. Zhao et al. PECVD (VHF-PECVD), microwave PECVD (μw-PECVD), photo-induced CVD (photo-CVD), and hot wire CVD (HW-CVD). The main precursors are silane (SiH4) or disilane (Si2H6) with hydrogen (H2), helium (He), or argon (Ar) as the dilution gases to improve the material quality. For doped a-Si:H, PH3 is used for N-type doping, B2H6, B(CH3)3, or BF3 are used for P-type doing. Below we present the commonly used methods in a-Si:H material and solar cell depositions. Dc-PECVD PECVD is a process using glow discharge to deposit thin ﬁlms. Since glow discharge method can be used in other process, such as etching in semiconductor device fabrications, we use glow discharge when we discuss the physical properties of plasma and use PECVD when we discuss ﬁlm deposition. From physics point of view, DC glow discharge is the easiest process to be understood. Figure 1 shows a schematic drawing of a DC glow discharge chamber, where two parallel plate electrodes are installed in a vacuum chamber equipped with gas supplying and pumping systems. A DC power supply is connected to one of the electrode and ground the other. The substrate is placed on one electrode, normally on the grounded anode. Under a given low pressure, the electric ﬁeld breaks the gas molecules to form positive ions and electrons. The charged particles are accelerated by the electric ﬁeld, collide with other neutral species, and break them down. The positively charged ions and electrons can be lost by the collisions with others and escaping out of the plasma. When the generation rate and the losing rate of the positively Fig. 1 Schematic drawing of a DC glow discharge chamber 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 643 charged ions and electrons get balanced, a stable plasma state is built, where the average electron density and positive ion density are equal. Because the decomposing of gas molecules by the collisions with high-energy electrons emits light, the process is called glow discharge. By measuring the emission spectrum, one can study the space reactions during plasma deposition. Glow discharge is a complex physical and chemical process. Here we only give a simple conception discussion. DC glow discharge process has been very well documented in the literature (Chapman 1980), where detailed descriptions of the fundamental theory and appli- cations are given. As shown in Fig. 1, the two parallel electrodes are separated with a small distance (d), one connects to the ground (normally the wall of the chamber) as the anode and the other connects to the negative output of the DC power supply, therefore it is called cathode. To sustain stable plasma, the electron generation rate should be high enough to balance the losses of electrons to the anodes and the chamber wall. The electron generation rate depends on the electric ﬁeld from the applied voltage. Electrons are accelerated by the electric ﬁeld, collide with neutral molecules to break them, and produce new electrons and ions. In certain conditions, the higher the applied electric ﬁeld, the higher the disassociation rate and the higher the electron generation rate are achieved. The electron annihilation includes the loss due to the recombination with positive ions, absorption onto the cathode, anode, and other chamber surface. Under a given condition, the applied voltage should be higher than a certain value called the threshold voltage (Vth) to sustain the plasma. The Vth depends on the structure of the chamber, especially the gap between the cathode and anode (d), the process parameters such as pressure ( p), temperature (T), and reactant gases and their ﬂow rates. The most important parameter determining the Vth is the product of the gap distance and pressure (pd), which follows the so-called Paschen curve. Now we discuss a few important parameters of describing the plasma properties. The ﬁrst important parameter is electron temperature and ion temperature. Because the electron mass is much lighter than the mass of molecules and ions, electrons and ions cannot reach thermal equilibrium. Consequently, electrons and ions have different temperatures in plasma. For an ideal gas, the temperature (T) is the measure of average kinetic energy (Ek) of gas molecules and they have the following relation: Ek ¼ 1 2 mv2 ¼ 3 2 kT, (1) where m is the mass of particles, v the average velocity, k the Boltzmann constant. This relation applies to ions and electrons in plasma with corresponding ion tem- perature Ti and electron temperature Te. Both ions and electrons get energy from the applied electric ﬁeld, thus the ion temperature Ti is normally slightly higher than the ambient temperature because they lose energy by collision with other particles and the chamber surface. Furthermore, because electrons are much lighter than ions and do not lose much energy by collisions with ions and neutral particles, the electron temperature Te is much higher than the ion temperature when they obtain the same energy from the applied ﬁeld. For example, 1 eV is about 11,600 K for electrons. 644 Y. Zhao et al. In stable plasma, the electron density and positive ion density should be the same and is called the plasma density (n), which is one of the important parameters for plasma. A high plasma density is one of the conditions for high rate deposition. Although the equal average positive and negative charge densities lead to an average neutral state in plasma, some variations in the charge distribution in plasma can occur locally. Because the electron speed is much higher than ion speed, the movement of electrons causes an oscillation in charge distribution. The oscillation frequency is named as plasmon frequency (ωe) and given by ωe ¼ ne2 mee0  1=2 ¼ 8:98  103n1=2 Hz ð Þ, (2) where n is the average electron density, e the electron charge, me the mass of electron, e0 is the dielectric constant in vacuum. For a plasma density of 1010 cm3, the plasma frequency ωe is around 900 MHz, which is much higher than the RF frequency of 13.56 MHz and VHF frequency of 40100 MHz used in a-Si:H depositions. Therefore, the concepts developed in DC glow discharge are applicable in RF and VHF glow discharge deposition processes. The third parameter is the plasma potential Vp, which is the average electric potential of the plasma body and it normally respects to the ﬂoating potential Vf as the reference. The Vf is the electric potential of a metal object ﬂoating in the plasma. When a metal object is placed in the plasma, electrons diffuse to the surface and make the metal surface negatively charged. Consequently, a lower potential Vf than the plasma potential is built to repel the additional electrons to come. The difference between the Vp and Vf is given by Vp  Vf ¼ kTe e ln ve vi   ¼ kTe 2e miTe meTi   , (3) where ve and vi are the average velocities of electrons and ions, me and mi the masses of electrons and ions, respectively. For the plasma used in a-Si:H deposition, the difference between Vp and Vf is in the range of a few Volts and a few tens of Volts. Corresponding to ﬂoating potential, another parameter called Debye length (λD) describes the space charge thickness around a metal object, λD ¼ kTee0 ne2  1=2 : (4) Since the plasma is electrically neutral in average, the amount of electrons ﬂowing out from the plasma should be equal to the amount of positive ions ﬂowing out; in addition, the electron diffusion speed is much higher than ion diffusion speed, the plasma potential Vp should be higher than the potential on the surrounding surface. Normally the substrate is ground and connected to the chamber wall, the cathode is connected to the negative of the power supply. Figure 2 shows a schematic diagram of the electric potential distribution between the two electrodes, where it is divided into three zones: anode sheath, plasma zone, and cathode sheath. Because 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 645 the anode sheath and cathode sheath have no glow, they are also called dark space. The voltage across the cathode sheath is the applied voltage plus the plasma potential, while it is just the plasma potential across the anode sheath. The difference between the cathode and anode sheath voltages leads to more positive ion ﬂow to the cathode and more electrons move to the anode, and therefore a constant current ﬂows through the system. In this kind of design, since the substrate is normally attached on the anode, a low ion bombardment on the substrate happens, which is favorable for high-quality a-Si:H deposition. From large area system design point of view, DC glow discharge is simple and easy for uniform deposition. In the late 1990s, BP Solar built a 20 MW/year a-Si:H PV module production line with DC-PECVD (Carson 2003). Although running well, it was closed for nontechnical reasons. DC glow discharge also has one major weakness. In order to keep a constant current ﬂow, the substrate needs to have a good conductivity. Nonconductive substrate is hard to be used in DC glow discharge. RF glow discharge overcomes this issue and has been widely used in a-Si:H solar cell research and thin ﬁlm silicon PV module production. RF-PECVD In RF PECVD system, a RF power supply is used to replace the DC power supply in DC PECVD system. Because the radiation from the RF power could interference communication, it has been agreed by the international community and assigned a special frequency of 13.56 MHz for RF PECVD deposition, where no communication Cathode Anode Vp 0 (Vp+Va) Cathode Sheath Width Plasma Anode Sheath Width Fig. 2 A schematic diagram of the electric potential distribution between the two electrodes in a DC glow discharge system 646 Y. Zhao et al. signal is using this frequency. Figure 3 draws a schematic diagram of an RF PECVD system (Kondo 2003). Similar to DC PECVD system, the output of RF power supply is connected to one of the two parallel plate electrodes, and the other electrode is grounded to the chamber wall, which leads to an effective larger area of the grounded electrode than the RF powered electrode and results in a negative DC self-bias (Vself) on the RF powered electrode during the plasma process. Therefore, the RF powered electrode is called cathode and the grounded electrode is called anode. The substrate is normally attached onto the anode. As discussed in the previous section, the RF frequency (13.56 MHz) is much lower than plasma frequency (ωe), the concepts of DC plasma are still applicable in RF glow discharge such as the plasma potential (Vp). An average DC potential is built up during RF glow discharge process as shown in Fig. 2 with two dark spaces of anode and cathode sheaths and the plasma zones. Except for the neutral species, electrons and positive ions can also diffuse out from the plasma zone and reach to the cathode and anode as well as other surrounding surface. Within a very short time after the plasma is ignited, a large number of electrons accumulated on the cathode and built a negative Vself on it, repelling the upcoming electrons and accelerating the ions. When the electron current and the ion current reach the same magnitude, no net DC current ﬂows through the system and stable RF plasma is established. Early analyses showed that the magnitude of the Vself is proportional to 4th power of the area ratio of the anode (Aa) and the cathode (Ac), Vself ¼ α Aa Ac  4 , (5) where α is a constant. This equation is deduced based on many assumptions, such as there is no collision for ions traveling the dark sheath, the current is limited by the Fig. 3 Schematic diagram of an RF PECVD system (Kondo 2003) 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 647 space charge, the capacitance of the dark sheath is proportion to the electrode area and inversely proportion to the dark sheath thickness, and the bias voltage inversely proportion to the capacitance. In reality, the measured self-bias deviates from the theoretical values because the assumptions are not 100% satisﬁed in a real RF glow discharge. However, it is a very useful number to monitor and control the plasma process such as a-Si:H depositions because any deviation from the designed process condition could cause a self-bias change such as chamber leakage, pressure and temperature change. It has been found that measuring the self-bias is one of the monitor and control methods in a-Si:H solar cell deposition. RF-PECVD is the most commonly used technique in semiconductor and thin ﬁlm silicon PV industries. Various large-scale production lines have been built around the world such as Applied Materials made the Sun-Fab production line to make thin silicon deposition on 5.7 m2 glass substrate. United Solar made 180 MW annual capability using 30 MW large roll-to-roll production lines with six rolls of 2.5-km long stainless steel substrates simultaneously going through a nine-chamber system to deposit a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple-junction ﬂexible solar modules. Vhf PECVD In the late 1980s, Shahs group in the University of Neuchatel pioneered to use VHF PECVD to deposit a-Si:H (Curtins et al. 1987a, b; Shah et al. 1992, 2003). In principle, VHF glow discharge is similar to the conventional RF glow discharge because the excitation frequency used in VHF PECVD is normally in the range from 40 MHz to 130 MHz and much lower than the plasma frequency. Nowadays, commonly used VHF frequency is between 40 MHz and 75 MHz. VHF PECVD have several advantages in a-Si:H deposition, especially in hydrogenated microcrys- talline silicon (μc-Si:H), also called hydrogenated nanocrystalline silicon (nc-Si:H), deposition. With the same excitation power density, VHF glow discharge has much higher plasma density than RF plasma, therefore VHF PECVD has been used in high rate a-Si:H deposition. The deposition rate is a very critical parameter for a-Si:H solar module fabrication because it determines the production efﬁciency and is inversely proportional to the manufacturing cost. Using a conventional RF PECVD, one can also increase the deposition rate by increasing the RF power, but the side effects are to degrade material quality and lower solar cell efﬁciency. First a high RF power increases the plasma potential, generates high energy ions to bombard the growth surface, increases defect density in the a-Si:H ﬁlms, and reduces the solar cell efﬁciency. Second, a high RF power also generates high energy electrons that result in the generation of SiH2 and SiH in the plasma, which associates to the incorporation of SiH2 in the deposited a-Si:H ﬁlms, consequently increases the light-induced metastability of a-Si:H materials, and increases the light- inducted efﬁciency degradation in a-Si:H solar cells. Third, a high RF power often generates high density of large particles (dusts) in the plasma, which are not only incorporated in the a-Si:H ﬁlms and form microvoids, but also increase the require- ments for equipment maintenance, and thus increase the manufacturing cost. By 648 Y. Zhao et al. compromising the production efﬁciency and product quality, the deposition rate for a-Si:H solar panels using RF PECVD is usually selected at 0.20.3 nm/s. Under the same excitation power density in PECVD, the deposition rate increases with the excitation frequency as shown in Fig. 4 (Shah et al. 2003), where the two sets of data were from two different groups with different VHF PECVD systems. One can see that for every system there is peak deposition rate. In the low frequency side, the deposition rate increases with the frequency signiﬁcantly and reaches the maximum at the peak frequency, and then it decreases in the high frequency side. The increase of deposition rate with the excitation frequency in the lower frequency side is caused by the increased plasma density as the increase of excitation fre- quency; while the decrease of deposition at higher frequency side is caused by the inefﬁcient power coupling to the chamber. It has been found that the VHF signal is much more difﬁcult to be tuned into a plasma chamber. Over the years, the VHF tuning technology has been signiﬁcantly improved. Therefore, one can reach a wider frequency range to tune VHF power into a deposition system and reach even high deposition rate at 100 MHz. Considering the deposition rate, material quality, large area uniformity, and the complexity of large area machines, the commonly used VHF frequency is in the range between 40 MHz and 75 MHz. From physics and chemistry point of view, what are the major differences between VHF and RF excitations in PECVD deposition and why does the deposition rate increase with the excitation frequency? A high rate deposition implies that the ﬂux intensity of growing species (neutral radicals and charge ions) reached onto the substrate is high, and correspondingly a high plasma density is built up with a high 0 50 100 Frequency [MHz] Deposition Rate [Å/s] 150 200 250 0 10 20 30 40 Fig. 4 The deposition rate of a-Si:H versus excitation frequency in VHF PECVD deposition (Shah et al. 2003) 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 649 excitation frequency. In addition, VHF PECVD not only shows a higher deposition rate, most importantly, but also it produces higher material quality and better device performance than RF PECVD. Experimental results showed that the initial and stable a-Si:H solar cell efﬁciencies did not depend on the deposition rate in VHF PECVD deposition for a wide range (Yue et al. 2007). As mentioned previously, the ion bombardment is one of the key issues of reducing the material quality and device performance at high rate RF PECVD deposition. Yan et al. studied the ion energy distribution in VHF and RF glow discharge. They found that under the same process condition, in a VHF glow discharge process the energy of ions reaching the substrate is much lower, but ion ﬂux intensity is much higher than in a RF glow discharge (Yan et al. 1999). Figure 5 shows the ion energy distributions measured by a retarding technique, where (a) is the plot for 75 MHz and (b) for 13.56 MHz, with the horizontal axis for the voltage on the collection electrode, and the vertical axis for the derivative of current. The measurements were made with H2 gas and with 10 W VHF or RF power. From the results, one may make the following observations. Under the lower pressure of 0.1 torr, the VHF glow discharge has a very narrow distribution with a peak at 22 V, a full width at half maximum of 6 V, and a sharp edge at the high voltage side. While under 1.0 torr, the peak position moves to around zero voltage with a much broad peak distribution. Because the reference voltage is 40 Von the grid sheath electrode (Vs) the plotted ion energy reached to the negative region, the real ion energy is still positive even the X-axis points are negative. From Fig. 5b, it is noted that with the RF excitation, the peak energy is at 37 Vand the width at half maximum is 18 V, both are much higher than the values in the VHF glow discharge under the same conditions. Another important observation was that the ion current density in the VHF glow discharge was about ﬁve times higher than in the RF glow discharge, which indicated that the plasma density is higher in the VHF plasma. Because the plasma density is the most important 1.2 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.2 50 30 10 0.1 Torr 1.0 Torr 0.1 Torr 1.0 Torr 10 Vc/V Vs Vs dJc/dVc (a.u) dJc/dVc (a.u) Vc/V 30 50 70 50 30 10 10 30 50 70 0 1 0.1 0.08 0.06 0.04 0.02 0.02 0 a b Fig. 5 Ion energy distribution in (a) VHF (75 MHz) glow discharge and (b) RF (13.56 MHz) glow discharge under the same conditions (Yan et al. 1999) 650 Y. Zhao et al. parameter determining the deposition rate, the higher plasma density in the VHF glow discharge implies that the VHF PECVD gives a higher deposition rate than the RF PECVD under the same conditions, which is consistent with the experiment results. To summarize the results, two conclusions were made: (1) VHF glow discharge has lower ion energies and (2) a higher ion-ﬂux intensity than the RF glow discharge. Such low energy ions with a high ﬂux density ensure a low energy ion bombardment for high-quality a-Si:H ﬁlms at high deposition rate. In addition, the large amount of low-energy ions on the surface enhance the diffusion length on the growing surface and help the growing species to ﬁnd low-energy sites to form stable chemical bonds, thus high-quality a-Si:H ﬁlms are deposited with VHF PECVD at high rates. The key parameter to determine the ion energy is the potential difference between the plasma potential and the substrate potential, called sheath voltage. In most situations, the substrate is grounded, therefore, the plasma potential determines the energy of ion bombardment on the substrate surface. The plasma potential is proportional to the peak-to-peak voltage on the cathode (Vpp), thus the Vpp on the cathode affects on the ion bombardment. An early study showed that under the given same condition, the Vpp dropped from 180 Vat 13.56 MHz to 50 Vat 70 MHz (Shah et al. 1992). Microwave PECVD Microwave PECVD (μw-PECVD) is a well-developed technology in industrial application for high rate deposition. In crystalline Si solar module manufacturing, it has been used to make a-SiN:H passivation layer, also it is widely used in polycrystalline diamond deposition. In the 1990s, Energy Conversion Device, Inc. (ECD) used μw-PECVD for high rate deposition of a-Si:H and a-SiGe:H materials and devices (Guha et al. 1994), especially the devices with much thicker layers. In a μw-PECVD system, the microwave excitation power is introduced into the deposi- tion chamber from a waveguide through an Al2O3ceramic window. Under a given pressure, the reactant gases absorb the microwave energy and are dissociated into neutral and charged species, and then form plasma for ﬁlm deposition. The advan- tage of μw-PECVD is the high dissociation rate and therefore high deposition rate. Using μw-PECVD, Guha et al. (1994) deposited high-quality a-Si:H and a-SiGe:H at 10 nm/s and attained reasonable good solar cells. Because the deposition rate is high, the μw-PECVD deposited a-Si:H materials are not as good as RF PECVD deposited a-Si:H materials, and it has never been used in real mass solar panel fabrication. In the recent years, as μc-Si:H has been widely used as the intrinsic layer of solar cells, μw-PECVD has been reinvestigated for high rate deposition of μc-Si:H. In ECD, Jonse et al. used an improved μw-PECVD with a gas jet structure and successfully made μc-Si:H solar cells (Jones et al. 2000). Later on Yan et al. of United Solar used a μw-PECVD system and made μc-Si:H solar cells at a high rate of 34 nm/s (Yan et al. 2003). AIST and other institutes in Japan developed an improved μw-PECVD system for high rate μc-Si:H solar cell deposition (Jia et al. 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 651 2006a, b; Shirai et al. 1999). Under an optimized condition, they achieved a high rate of 6.5 nm/s for μc-Si:H deposition, and the materials showed a good quality with defect density of 12  1016/cm3. ECN Solar Energy in the Netherlands used a linear μw-PECVD system to deposit μc-Si:H on a moving substrate and achieved very uniform large area depositions (Biebericher et al. 2004; Löfﬂer et al. 2006). Hot Wire CVD Hot wire CVD (HW-CVD) is another widely used method for a-Si:H and μc-Si:H depositions and has been well studied in the literature (Doyle et al. 1988; Holt et al. 2002; Ishibashi 2001; Mahan 2001, 2003; Mahan et al. 2000, Matsumura 2001; Matsumura and Tachibana 1985). It uses hot ﬁlaments installed in a vacuum chamber to decompose the reactant gases, where the ﬁlaments are normally heated to 18002000C while the substrate keeps at a low temperature between 150C and 400C. The hot ﬁlament acts as a catalytic for the chemical reaction, therefore this method is also called Cat-CVD; the low substrate temperature allows enough hydrogen incorporated into the ﬁlms to passivate Si dangling bonds and improves the a-Si:H material quality. Because the reactant gases are disassociated by the high temperature of the hot ﬁlament and no electric ﬁeld exists in the process, HW-CVD has the advantage of no ion bombardment, which is supposed to be important for high-quality a-Si:H materials, especially at high rate. Compared to PECVD deposition where the main contribution for ﬁlm growth is SiH3, an early study showed that a-Si:H ﬁlms are mainly deposited from atomic Si radicals in HW-CVD for the two reasons (Doyle et al. 1988). First, most SiH4 molecules are decomposed into atomic Si and atomic H when they reach the hot ﬁlament. Second, the deposition pressure is normally low such that the atomic Si radicals reach substrate for the ﬁlm growth. Because the collisions between the decomposed radicals with SiH4 and other reactant gas molecules affect the ﬁlm growth and quality, the process pressure is one of the most important parameters to determine the material quality. Doyle et al. (1988) found that the optimized pressure should be in the range between 4 mTorr and 30 mTorr. In 1990s, NREL in the USA did a signiﬁcant study on HW-CVD depositions for high-quality a-Si:H materials and solar cells (Mahan 2001, 2003). They optimized the ﬁlament and substrate temperatures and found that when the ﬁlament tempera- ture is at 1900C and the substrate temperature is at 360390C, high-quality a-Si:H materials could be made with very low hydrogen content of 1 at.%, which is much lower than the 1015 at.% in PECVD deposited a-Si:H. As expected, the lower hydrogen content improved the stability of the materials under prolonged light soaking. In PECVD deposition, if the substrate temperature is too high such as 360390C, the hydrogen content is also low, but the defect density would be high because no enough hydrogen terminate Si dangling bonds, while the NRELs study showed that the high substrate temperature HW-CVD deposited a-Si:H materials had a high quality with the photosensitivity above 105. In order to improve the material quality further, Mahan studied the HW-CVD deposition mechanisms including the 652 Y. Zhao et al. dissociation of gas molecules on the wire surface, the space reaction of atomic Si and atomic H with molecules and other radicals, and surface reactions of impinging species (Mahan 2001, 2003). Especially, the space reaction is critical for high-quality a-Si:H deposition. As in PECVD deposition, they found that SiH3 and Si2H5 are identiﬁed also as the main contributors for good quality a-Si:H deposition, therefore the space reaction of atomic Si and atomic H with other species are important for producing SiH3 and Si2H5. The parameter for determining the space reaction is the pressure (P) and the distance (L) from the ﬁlament to substrate since the probability of collision for radicals traveling from the ﬁlament to the substrates is proportional to the pressure and inversely proportional to the distance. Figure 6 plots the micro- structure parameter R* versus the product of pressure and distance (PL), where the R* is deﬁned as the ratio of the integrals of the 2090 cm1peak and 2000 cm1+ 2090 cm1 peaks in infrared absorption spectra (will be discussed later), corresponding to the Si-H vibration mode and Si-H2 vibration mode, respectively. The lower the R*, the better the material quality and stability of a-Si:H are. From the plot, it is noted that an optimized condition should have the PL value at around 10 Pa.cm. This optimized PL value should be used as a guideline for HW-CVD system design. Because the heating from the hot ﬁlament to the substrate limits the distance L, therefore the P is also limited. Commonly the optimized distance L is in the range of 510 cm and the pressure P is in the range of 12 Pa. HW-CVD also has three major issues: (1) metal contaminations from the ﬁla- ment, (2) lifetime of the ﬁlament, and (3) large area uniformity. It was found that HW-CVD-deposited a-Si:H ﬁlms contain 1018 at./cm3 of metal impurity. Mahan et al. (2000) compared the ﬁlms made with a new wire and an old wire and found that the metal content is lower in the a-Si:H made with the old wire than with the new wire. Therefore, they concluded that the evaporation of WO2 from the wire surface causes the metal contamination. They used a shutter in front of the substrate. First, prior the deposition, a preconditioning process was made by covering the substrate and heating the ﬁlament to a temperature higher than the designed temperature to 10 1 0.1 0.01 PS L (Pa  cm) R (dimensionless) 1 10 100 Fig. 6 Infrared microstructure R* versus the product of pressure P and distance L between the ﬁlament and substrate (Mahan 2003) 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 653 remove the WO2 layer on the ﬁlament, then opening the shutter for the deposition. SIMS analysis showed that the metal contamination from the ﬁlament was lower than the detected limitation of the SIMS system and had no inﬂuence on the a-Si:H property (Mahan et al. (2000). The second issue of HW-CVD is the breakage of the wire. During the heating process, especially when the wire temperature is not hot enough, metal silicide such as W5Si2 forms on the surface of the ﬁlament and causes the breakage of the wire (Holt et al. 2002). Because the metal silicide easily forms at lower wire temperature than the process wire temperature, it forms mainly on the two terminal ends. A design with additional inert gas or H2 inlets at the wire ends reduced the metal silicide formation and increased the wire lifetime signiﬁcantly. The third issue of HW-CVD is the large area uniformity. This issue could be resolved by proper ﬁlament design and distribution. Figure 7 shows the wire distribution in a large area HW-CVD system (Ishibashi 2001; Matsumura 2001), where multiple short W wires reduce the bending and the springs at the terminals allow an easy replacement for the broken wires. Using this design, large area H2 or NH3 SiH4 through-hole insulator shower plate spring cap catalyzer (W wire) terminal a b Fig. 7 (a) Wire distribution and (b) gas inlets in a large area HW-CVD system (Ishibashi 2001; Matsumura 2001) 654 Y. Zhao et al. (10 cm  40 cm) uniform a-Si:H deposition was achieved at a deposition rate of 0.5 nm/s. In the last 30 years, several institutes have made signiﬁcant studies on HW-CVD depositions of a-Si:H and μc-Si:H materials and solar cells. Because of no ion bombardment during the ﬁlm growth, theoretically HW-CVD should have an advantage over PECVD; however, the a-Si:H solar cells made using HW-CVD have not been as good as those made with PECVD. In reality, the solar cell improvement is a systematic optimization process involving many other layers and steps such as the doped layers, the transparent conductive electrodes, and interfaces. HW-CVD just provides one of the methods for high-quality intrinsic layer deposi- tion. Although HW-CVD has a long history in lab researches, it has not been widely used in industrial thin ﬁlm Si PV module productions mainly because of the low cell efﬁciency and large area limitation. One interesting result is from the Jülich group. They used HW-CVD method to improve the interface properties in p-i-n structured μc-Si:H solar cells and achieved a signiﬁcant improvement in the cell performance (Mai et al. 2005). In the p-i-n structures, the intrinsic μc-Si:H is normally deposited with very high hydrogen dilution and a high RF or VHF power to reduce the a-Si:H incubation layer. The high power deposition with high hydrogen dilution and high power could damage the p layer and cause additional defects at the p/i interface. A HW-CVD deposition after the p layer reduces the defect density at the p/i interface and improves the cell efﬁciency signiﬁcantly. Material Properties of Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon and Alloy Material properties directly affect the solar cell performance. A good material, especially the absorber layer, is the necessary condition, but not the sufﬁcient condition for good solar cell. Therefore, the development and optimization of the material properties are the basic processes of thin ﬁlm silicon solar cell optimization. Here we discuss the material properties of a-Si:H and its alloys from the solar cell performance perspective. Structure and Electronic States Crystal silicon (c-Si) has a perfect tetrahedral diamond structure with sp3 covalence bond (short range order, SRD) and the Si atoms are in a perfect periodical crystal structure (long range order, LRD). However, although the most individual Si atoms in a-Si and a-Si:H are also in the tetrahedral diamond structure with sp3 covalence bond (SRD), they lose the perfect periodicity due to the distortions in the bond length and bond angle, which is called disorder. In addition, because of the imperfection in the structure, some chemical bonds are under stain and some become broken bonds. Figure 8 shows a structure model for a-Si, where ﬁve parameters are used to describe the structure disorders (Okamoto et al. 1999), namely, the bond length r1 to the near 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 655 neighbor (Si-Si1), the bond angle θ, the distance to the next neighbor (Si-Si2) r2, the distance to the third near neighbor r3, and the dihedral angle φ formed by the plane determined by the chemical bonds of Si-Si1 and Si1-Si2, and the plane determined by the chemical bonds of Si1-Si2 and Si2-Si3. Actually, the φ is described by another two planes in Fig. 8 for clarity. In c-Si, only six-member rings exist, but ﬁve-member and seven-member rings also form in a-Si and a-Si:H. The disorders can normally be measured by X-ray diffraction (XRD), where individual bright spots are observed for c-Si, rings for poly-Si, and two fuzzy belts for a-Si:H, indicating the SRD is only extended to the next neighbors. The structure disorders have a signiﬁcant impact on the electronic state. Based on the Anderson localization theory and the Mott-COF band structure model (Anderson 1958; Cohen et al. 1969; Mott 1966,1967), the distorted chemical bonds form localized state between the conduction band edge (EC) and valence band edge (EV) and show an exponential distribution towards the inside of the bandgap as shown in Fig. 9, which are called band-tail states and described by the following equations. NC E ð Þ ¼ NC0 exp E  EC kTC   NV E ð Þ ¼ NV0 exp EV  E kTV   , (6) where NC0 and NV0 are the density of states at the conduction band edge and valance band edge, TC and TV are the effective characteristic temperature of the conduction and valence band-tail states, respectively. The band-tail states directly affect the carrier transports because they are localized states, where carriers in these states Si1 Si Si2 Si3 r3 r2 r1 q f Fig. 8 Atomic structure model of a-Si, where the ﬁve parameters are used to describe the disorders (Okamoto et al. 1999) 656 Y. Zhao et al. cannot move before being excited back to the extended states. Therefore, the band- tail states are considered as traps for carrier transport. In the middle of the bandgap, some deep level states result mainly from Si dangling bonds, the upper and the lower peaks represent the double-occupied (two electrons in the state) and the single- occupied (one electron in the state) states, respectively, and the difference is the correlation energy Ueff that is assumed to be positive in this ﬁgure. It has been a long debate, if the Ueff is positive or negative because two factors contribute to it (Adler 1981). First, when two electrons occupy one state, the Coulomb repulsive force adds an additional energy for the second electron to stay in the same state, which makes the Ueff positive; second, the double occupied electron states could also make a lattice relaxation and reduce the energy needed for the second electrons to occupy the state, and reduce the Ueff. Therefore, the overall effective Ueff could be positive and negative, depending on which factor is dominating. It has been proven that the Ueff is negative in chalcogenide glass. Although no agreement has been made on the long debate about positive or negative Ueff in a-Si and a-Si:H, most of the experi- mental results support the positive Ueff model. The sign of the Ueff has a signiﬁcant impact on carrier transport in the materials and material stability as well. For a positive Ueff system, most of the defect states are occupied by one electron and keep the state electrically neutral (D0); while for a negative Ueff system, excess carriers (such as photo-generated electron-hole pairs) make the defect states double-occupied and zero-occupied. The double-occupied states are negatively charged (D) and zero-occupied states are positively charged (D+). The charged states could be staying Fig. 9 Mott-CFO model for band diagram in amorphous semiconductors 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 657 for a much longer time even after the excitation source is turned off, which leads to some metastability phenomena such as persistent photocurrent and light-induced changes in the material property. From an application point of view, these band structure parameters are very important for high efﬁciency solar cells. First, as the bandgap is deﬁned by the difference between the conduction band edge EC and valence band edge EV (Eg = EC-EV), the bandgap directly limits the long wavelength cut-off of solar cell spectral response. In a-Si:H, the incorporation of H not only reduces the density of dangling bond states, but also shifts the valence band edge downward and leads to a larger bandgap than in c-Si. The bandgap in a-Si:H is normally in the range between 1.65 eV and 1.85 eV, depending on the hydrogen content. It has been found that the Eg in a-Si:H has a linear relation with hydrogen content (Matsuda et al. 1981). The band-tail states are from the distorted or strained bonds, especially the stretched bonds. The incorporation of H also relaxes the strained bonds and reduces the band- tail states (Khomyakov et al. 2011). For good a-Si:H, the conduction band-tail width characterized by the kTC is around 25 mV and the valence band-tail width kTV of 50 mV, the deep defect density is in the order of 1016 cm3. Optical Property Absorption in the Solar Spectrum As a solar cell material, the optical properties are important for cell efﬁciency. High absorption coefﬁcients in the solar spectrum imply a high photocurrent density. Figure 10 shows an example of the absorption spectrum of a-Si:H material, where it can be divided into three regions. The region A is the absorption of photons with 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.2 100 101 102 103 104 C B A a(cm-1) hn(eV) RH=5 Fig. 10 An absorption coefﬁcient spectrum of a device quality a-Si:H ﬁlm made with hydrogen dilution ratio RH = 5 (H2/SiH4) 658 Y. Zhao et al. energy larger than the optical bandgap Eg, and the long wavelength limit of this region corresponds to the optical bandgap Eg of the material. For good a-Si:H, Eg is 1.71.8 eV, which is slightly smaller than the mobility bandgap. The absorption coefﬁcient at the bandgap energy is in the order 103104 cm1, and it increases by 1 to 2 orders or magnitudes to 105 cm1 at around 550 nm (2.25 eV) of wave- length, which is much larger than the absorption coefﬁcients of c-Si in the solar spectrum. Therefore, a-Si:H has been called quasi-direct bandgap material although the absorption coefﬁcient follows the indirect formulation. In c-Si, the electron transition from the valence band to the conduction bond needs not only to satisfy the energy conservation but also momentum conservation with the assistance from phonons. Therefore, c-Si has an indirect bandgap of 1.12 eV, above which the absorption coefﬁcients are in the order of 103104 cm1. When the photo energy is larger than the ﬁrst direct bandgap of 3.0 eV, the absorption coefﬁcients increase signiﬁcantly, but the solar spectrum declines at the high energy region. For a-Si:H, the momentum is no longer a good quantum number; and the electron transition is only governed by the energy conservation but not the quasi-momentum conserva- tion, therefore, the absorption coefﬁcients are much higher in a-Si:H than in c-Si in the main solar spectrum. In this range, the absorption coefﬁcient α and the optical bandgap Eg follow the Tauc plots (Tauc 1974), αhν ð Þ1=2 ¼ B hν  Eg ð Þ, (7) where hν is photon energy, B is a constant related to the band-tail states. Eq. (7) is the standard indirect bandgap Tauc plot, but it is derived only based on the shape of the band state structure in the conduction band and the valence band, where parabolic conduction and valence band shape was used (Cody 1984). Experimentally, the optical bandgap can be obtained by measuring the optical absorption coefﬁcients with the ﬁtting to the Tauc plot. Region B corresponds to the band-tail absorptions, where the absorption coefﬁcient is in the range of 1α103 cm1 and decreases exponentially with photo energy, α ¼ α0 exp hν Et0   , (8) where α0 is a prefactor, and Et0 is a constant describing the decay of the absorption coefﬁcient with photo energy. The exponential decay results from the exponential shape of the band-tail distribution as described by Eq. (6). It was ﬁrst observed by Urbach in 1953 (Urbach 1953), therefore, Et0 is called Urbach energy or Urbach tail. The transitions in this region include those from the valance band tail to the conduction band and from the valence band to the conduction band tail. Because the valence band-tail distribution is much wider than the conduction band-tail distribution, the measured Urbach tail normally reﬂects the valence band-tail distribution. Region C is called sub-bandgap absorption, where the absorption coefﬁcient is in the order of 1 cm1 and 10 cm1 and is less sensitive to the photoenergy in the range 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 659 between 0.8 eV and 1.2 eV. The absorption in this region corresponds to the transition from the valence band to the defect band in the middle of the bandgap; the higher the absorption coefﬁcient in this region, the higher the defect density is. Therefore, the sub-bandgap absorption coefﬁcients have been widely used to measure the defect density. The measurement of optical absorption can be made by the transmission and reﬂection (T-R) method using an optical spectroscopy in the UV-visible range, where the absorption coefﬁcients are high. However, for the low absorption region (IR), the T-R method is not sensitive enough to measure the absorption coefﬁcients. Advanced methods such as constant photocurrent method (CPM) and photothermal deﬂection spectroscopy (PDS) have been used to measure the absorption coefﬁcients from the band-tail absorption and sub-bandgap absorption regions. The details of CPM and PDS measurements can be found in Fritzsche et al. (1984) and Jackson and Amer (1981). Photoluminescence (PL) The photoexcited carriers in a a-Si:H ﬁlm recombine to release the energy. The recombination goes through various radiative and nonradiative channels. The radi- ative recombination releases energy by emitting photons, which is called photo- luminescence (PL) (Han et al. 1996; Han and Wang 2003; Street 1981). By measuring the PL spectra, one can study the defect structure in the materials. The PL experiments for a-Si:H can be using an Ar-ion laser or any light source with photoenergy larger than the bandgap. Because of the thermal quenching, the PL is normally measured at low temperature such as liquid N2 (77 K). For a good intrinsic a-Si:H ﬁlm, the PL spectrum has a peak at 1.31.4 eV with the half width of 0.3 eV; while for defective or doped a-Si:H, a second peak is also observed at 0.80.9 eV with a low intensity of 1% of the ﬁrst peak. The PL process from a-Si:H is a competition of radiative and nonradiative recombination processes. Figure 11 shows the possible recombination channels, where the 1.31.4 eV peak corresponds to the radiative recombination of trapped electrons in the conduction band tails and the trapped holes in the valence band tails; while the low energy PL at 0.80.9 eV corresponds to two process: electrons are ﬁrst trapped to the deep defect states and then recombine with trapped holes in the Conduction edge Conduction band tails Valence edge Valence band tails Electron Capture 1.3 eV Band tail PL 0.9 eV Defect PL e p ne np Fig. 11 Photocarrier recombination processes in a-Si:H for PL 660 Y. Zhao et al. valence band tails. For a-Si:H with nanostructured c-Si grains embedded, one may observe some blue shift of the band-tail PL. Some researchers believe that it is due to the quantum conﬁnements, but it could be also because of the widening of a-Si:H bandgap resulted from a high hydrogen content. For high defective a-Si:H, two low energy PL peaks were also observed, which could be an evidence of two kinds of defect states (Han et al. 1996). In PL measurement, one may change the excitation frequency and monitor the PL intensity as a function of the excitation energy, which is called PL excitation (PLE) spectra. PLE reﬂects the absorption in the material. It has been observed that the PLE peak energy is about 0.40.5 eV higher than the PL peak energy. This difference is called Stokes shift, caused by the association of phonons during the electron transitions. The half of the Stokes shift (0.20.25 eV) corresponds to the lattice relaxation energy during the recombination process, which reﬂects some degrees of c-Si indirect bandgap characteristics. Infrared Absorption Hydrogen incorporation into a-Si:H reduces the internal stress and passivates Si dangling bonds and therefore plays a signiﬁcant role in improving the material quality. Most of Si atoms are bonded to four Si atoms in the tetrahedral structure. For some Si atoms, one chemical bond could be terminated by a H atom, and forms a Si-H bond and some others could bond to two or three H atoms and form Si-H2 and Si-H3. It was found that the Si-H conﬁguration most likely appears in dense areas, while Si-H2and Si-H3 in the internal surface of microvoids in a-Si:H materials. Therefore, to measure the H conﬁguration is an effective method to study a-Si:H property and quality. Infrared (IR) absorption is a widely used technique to measure the H conﬁgurations, which detects the IR absorption intensities by different Si-H vibration modes. Since the IR absorption measurement is commonly done using a Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy, it is normally called FTIR measurements. The Si-H vibrations in a-Si:H have two kinds of modes: the relative motion of the Si-H atoms along the bond length called stretching mode and the rotation motion of Si-H along different axes called bending, rocking, and waging. The Si-H2 and Si-H3 also have the stretching mode, and the rotation modes of bending, rocking, and waging; they also have an additional mode called scissoring and twisting (Zanzucchi 1984). The different vibration modes with different phonon energies are reﬂected at different wave numbers in IR absorption spectra of a-Si:H (Zanzucchi 1984; Joannopoulos and Lucovsky 1984). The Si-H stretching mode is at 2000 cm1, and rotation mode at 640 cm1; although the bending/rocking modes for Si-H2 and Si-H3 are also at 640 cm1, their stretching modes are at 2090 cm1 and 2140 cm1, respectively. In addition the stretching modes for clusters and chain structures of (SiH)n and (SiH2)n are also at around 2100 cm1, therefore, those modes are difﬁcult to be separated experimentally. In addition, the SiH2 and SiH3 scissoring/twisting modes are at 830 cm1 and 920 cm1. Figure 12 shows topical IR absorption spectrum of a PECVD deposited a-Si:H, where high-quality materials deposited with low RF power show the stretching modes mainly at 2000 cm1, while the high power samples have an additional large component at 2090 cm1. 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 661 Because all of the bending/rocking/waging modes are at 640 cm1, the absorption coefﬁcient at this wave number is proportional to the total bonded hydrogen (not including molecule hydrogen H2) atoms. Therefore, the total bonded hydrogen content can be obtained by CH ¼ A640 ð α ω ð Þ ω dω, (9) where α is the absorption coefﬁcient, ω the wave-number, and A640 is a constant calibrated by nuclear reaction or secondary ion mass spectroscopy (SIMS). The commonly used A640 is (2.10.2)  1019 cm2 and it needs to be corrected for multiple reﬂections for thin samples with a factor of 1/(1.720.0011ωd) (Langford et al. 1992), where d is the sample thickness. The stretching band at 20002100 cm1 mainly contains two peaks at 2000 cm1 and 2090 cm1 for the Si-H and Si-H2 + Si-H3 stretching modes, respectively. Because high-quality a-Si:H has a high percentage of Si-H and a very little Si-H2 and Si-H3, a parameter called microstructure factor R* is deﬁned to measure the quality of a-Si:H, R ¼ I2090 I2000 þ I2090 , (10) where I2090 and I2000 are the integrals of the 2090 cm1 and 2000 cm1 components, respectively. For high-quality a-Si:H materials, R* is 0.1, while for poor a-Si:H, 1 W (A) 10 W (A) 30 W (A) 30 W (C) 2200 2000 1800 1600 1400 1200 1000 800 600 Wavenumber (cm-1) Transmission Ts = 230 C Fig. 12 IR absorption spectra of a-Si:H ﬁlms made with different RF powers 662 Y. Zhao et al. such as deposited with a high power or at room temperature, R* could be 0.8. Overall, IR absorption measurement is an important characterization technique and it can give rich information about hydrogen content and hydrogen bonding conﬁgu- rations. IR absorption spectroscopy can also detect the impurities in a-Si:H such as O, N, and O. Raman Spectroscopy Raman scattering is an inelastic scattering of photons with phonons in materials (Lannint 1984, Zhang et al. 2002). For a-Si:H study, visible or near infrared light is used as the excitation source. From Raman spectra, the structural properties of a-Si: H can be obtained. The ﬁrst order Raman signals from a-Si:H are mainly in the wave number range 100600 cm1, in the far infrared region. In the study of material structure properties, Raman and IR are complementary to each other. In c-Si, the conservation of crystal momentum limits the Raman scattering to only a narrow TO mode at 520 cm1 with a width at half maximum of 3 cm1. While in a-Si:H, because the disorder relaxes the conservation of momentum, the TO mode broadens and shifts to 480 cm1 and the other three Raman modes are excited and observed as well, where the LO mode is at 410 cm1, LA mode at 310 cm1, and TA mode at 170 cm1. Figure 13 shows a typical Raman spectrum of a-Si:H with different vibration bands as indicated, where the sample was considered a device quality a-Si:H made at 200 C with a hydrogen dilution ratio for intrinsic layer in a-Si:H solar cells. 0 10 20 30 40 50 100 200 300 400 500 600 Raman Scattering Intensity (a.u.) Wavenumber (cm-1) Measured a-Si:H top cell a-Si TA a-Si LA a-Si LO a-Si TO Fit-Total Fig. 13 A typical Raman spectrum of a device quality a-Si:H ﬁlm used in high efﬁciency a-Si:H solar cells. The four ﬁtting curves corresponding to different vibration modes are plotted 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 663 As discussed above, the momentum conservation is the main reason for the large difference in the Raman spectra of a-Si:H and c-Si, where in c-Si, only the TO phonons with crystal momentum Q near zero can participate in Raman scattering. These phonons have an energy of 64 mV and therefore result in the TO Raman scattering at 520 cm1. In a-Si:H, the TO mode shifts to the lower energy side at 480 cm1 and the bandwidth becomes much broader; also the other scattering modes appear. Logically, the bandwidth of the TO mode can be used as a measure of the ordering in a-Si:H, especially the short range order; also the ratio of the TA/TO modes is related to the ordering in the materials. Experimentally, it was observed that both the TO bandwidth Δω and the intensity ratio of TA/TO decreases with the increase of deposition temperature, suggesting the short range order improvement with the increase of substrate temperature. From the change of bandwidth Δω, the change of bond angle Δθ from the perfect c-Si can be calculated and it is founded that the bond angle distortion is 7, slightly smaller than 10% estimated by other methods. It was also found that the TA mode is a characteristic of inter-medium range order in a-Si:H. With the increase of hydrogen dilution, the intensity of the TA mode decreases, indicating an inter-medium range order increase (Fortner and Lannin 1989). When hydrogen dilution is high enough, nano- and microcrystallites form and nc-Si:H and μc-Si:H are deposited. The Raman spectra changes dramatically with the appearance of the sharp c-Si peak at 510520 cm1 when the transition happens, therefore Raman spectroscopy is widely used in the study of nc-Si:H and μc-Si:H materials as discussed in the next chapter. Electrical Property As mentioned previously, device quality intrinsic a-Si:H materials made by PECVD contain 1015 at.% H. They have an optical bandgap of 1.71.8 eV, conduction activation energy of 0.80.9 eV, and condition and valence band-tail widths of 25 mV and 50 mV, respectively. They also contain a deep state density of 10151016 cm3 depending on the deposition condition. At room temperature, the dark conductivity is in the order of 1010 (Ωcm)1, AM1.5 photoconductivity of 105 (Ωcm)1, and photosensitivity of 105106. Below we discuss the conductive mechanisms in a-Si:H materials. Dark Conductivity in Intrinsic a-Si:H The transport property is determined by the carrier mobility and carrier concentra- tion. In undoped a-Si:H, the material shows a weak N-type conduction, electron drift mobility of 1 cm2/Vs, and hole drift mobility of 0.01 cm2/Vs (Schiff 2004), therefore, the dark conductivity of a-Si:H is dominated by electron transport. Many material characteristics can be studied by the temperature dependence of dark conductivity, which is divided into four regions as shown in Fig. 14 (Mott and Davis 1979). At room temperature and above, the dark conductivity σd is mainly 664 Y. Zhao et al. contributed from the free electrons thermally excited to the conduction band and its temperature T dependence is given by σd ¼ σ0 exp  EC  EF kT   , (11) where σ0 is a pre-factor, EC is the conduction band edge, EF the Fermi level, and k the Boltzmann constant. By measuring the temperature dependence of dark conductive, the activation energy of Ea = EC-EF can be calculated from the slope of ln(σd)-1/T plot. The σ0 is determined by the electron mobility μe and the effective density of state at the conduction band edge NC with σ0 = qμeNC. The measured Ea and σ0 has a relation called Meyer-Neldel rule, which should be used for the correction of the measured Ea. The second region is hopping conductivity following σd ¼ σ1exp  EA  EF þ W1 kT   , (12) where EA is the characteristic energy of conduction band and W1 the hopping activation energy in the conduction band tail, which decreases with the decrease of temperature, σ1 is another pre-factor, which is much smaller than σ0. The third region is hopping in the states near the Fermi level if the density of state at the Fermi level is not zero. At very low temperature, electrons cannot be excited to high energy levels, the hopping in low energy states near the Fermi level can still provide some conductions, which is described by 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 -13 10 -12 10 -11 10 -10 10 -9 10 -8 10 -7 10 -6 T -1/4 W2 EA-EF+W1 EC-EF s (W cm) -1 1000/T Fig. 14 Dark conductive σd versus temperature 1000/T for a-Si:H (Mott and Davis 1979) 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 665 σd ¼ σ2 exp  W2 kT   , (13) where σ2 (σ2σ1) and W2 are the pre-factor and activation energy, respectively, in this temperature region. At very low temperature, the transport is through variable range hopping. Elec- trons have the tendency to go over the nearby sites and search the sites with the similar energy. In this very low temperature, the conductivity follows σd ¼ σ3 exp  B T 1 4   , (14) where B is a constant with the value of B = 1.66(α3/kN(EF))1/4, α is the lattice constant, and N(EF) the density of state at the Fermi level. For solar cell application, one of the most important properties is the transport characteristic in the extended states above the conduction band edge EC and below the valence band edge EV because solar cells are mainly used at the ambient or high temperatures. In this temperature range, the band-tail states play a role for trapping carriers: (1) excess carriers transport in the extended states, (2) are trapped in the band-tail states, (3) are thermally excited to the extended states for transport, (4) and are trapped again. This process is called multiple trapping. The higher the density of the tail states, the more the trapping processes happen. The multiple trapping processes reduce the carrier drift mobil- ity μD signiﬁcantly by μD¼ D n0 n0 þ nT μ0, (15) where μ0 is the carrier mobility in the extended states, n0 and nT are the free carrier and trapped densities, respectively. Because of the multiple trapping process, the drift mobility in a-Si:H is much lower than in c-Si. The electron drift mobility is normally in the order of 1 cm2/Vs and hole drift mobility is only in the order of 102 cm2/Vs (Schiff 2004). The much smaller hole drift mobility than electron drift mobility partially results from the much wider valence band tails than the conduction band tails. The multiple trapping processes also cause dispersion in the transport, especially for hole transport. The drift mobility is normally mea- sured by time-of-ﬂight technique. A carrier sheet generated by a blue laser near one side of a sandwiched a-Si:H p-i-n structure moves towards the opposite side under an electric ﬁeld and produces a transient photocurrent. Ideally, when the carrier sheet reaches the opposite side, the current vanishes. The time for the carriers to travel through the sample (i-layer thickness) is called transient time tT and inversely proportional to the carrier drift mobility. In reality, the transient photocurrent decreases with time due to the multiple trapping even before tT, and decreases much fast after the tT. Figure 15 shows electron TOF transient 666 Y. Zhao et al. photocurrent spectra from a 5-μm thick a-Si:H p-i-n structure measured (a) at 130 C with different reverse bias voltages and (b) measured at different temperatures with 3 V of reverse bias. One can see that the transient time tT indicated by the arrows increases with the decrease of applied bias voltage and measurement temperature. Using TOF technique, Gu et al. (1994) systematically studied the carrier drift mobility in various a-Si:H, a-SiC:H, and a-SiGe:H alloy materials. They found that the electron mobility decreases with the incorporation with either C for wide bandgap or Ge for narrow bandgap; but the hole drift mobility does not change at all with the composition changes as shown in Fig. 16, where the drift mobility is plotted as a function of bandgap varied by the 10 -7 10 -6 10 -5 10 -4 10 -7 10 -6 10 -5 10 -4 5V 3V 1V electrons T=-130 C light 1 % I (A) t(s) 10 -7 10 -6 10 -5 10 -4 10 -7 10 -6 10 -5 10 -4 U=3 V -144C -130C -119C I (A) t(s) Fig. 15 TOF transient photocurrent spectra of a 5-μm thick a-Si:H p-i-n structure for electron transport. The left plot: three transient photocurrent curves measured at -130C under different bias, and the right plot: three transient photocurrent curves measured at different temperatures under 3 V reverse bias 200 K 298K μD (cm2/Vs) 100 10-1 10-2 10-3 10-2 10-3 10-4 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 EG (eV) 1.9 2.0 Fig. 16 The electron (solid) and hole drift mobility as a function of the bandgap in a-SiC:H, a-Si:H, and a-SiGe: H alloy (Gu et al. 1994) 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 667 incorporation of C and Ge, for the wide bandgap and narrow bandgap, respectively. Photoconductivity in Intrinsic a-Si:H Under an illumination, the conductivity increases for most semiconductors and is also observed in intrinsic a-Si:H. The increased conductivity by the illumination is called photoconductivity (σph). For a-Si:H, under the standard AM1.5 illumination (100 W/cm2 at 25C), the photoconductivity is 105 (Ωcm)1, and the photosen- sitivity is in the order of 105106. The photocarriers are mainly excited by the transition from the extended valance band to the extended conduction band as well as from the valence band tail to the extended conduction band and from the extended valence band to the conduction band tails. The photocarrier density is determined by the generation rate G, carrier mobility μ, and the lifetime τ of the carriers, which is directly related to the recombination through the deep level states called recombi- nation centers. Because the hole drift mobility is much smaller than the electron drift mobility, the photoconductivity is dominated by electron transport. Therefore, the photoconductivity is related to the electronic states in the bandgap: the tail states affecting the mobility and the deep states reducing the lifetime. And it can be measured experimentally by the photocurrent through a a-Si:H ﬁlm on glass sub- strate with two parallel metal electrodes and calculated by σph ¼ qημτF 1  R ð Þ 1  exp αd ð Þ ð Þ, (16) where q is the elementary charge, η the quantum yield, μτ the mobility-lifetime product of electrons, F the photo ﬂux on the sample surface, R the reﬂectance, α the absorption coefﬁcient, and d the ﬁlm thickness. In the high absorption region with αd  1, Eq. (16) becomes, σph H ð Þ ¼ eημτF H ð Þ 1  R ð Þ: (17) While in the low absorption region with αd  1, Eq. (16) becomes, σph ¼ eημτF 1  R ð Þαd: (18) In case R and ημτ are independent of photon energy hν, the photocurrent is proportional to the absorption coefﬁcient α with, α hν ð Þ / σph hν ð Þ F hν ð Þ : (19) Because ημτ depends on the recombination, hence on the split of quasi-Fermi levels, Eq. (19) is valid under the small signal condition, under which the quasi- Fermi level spilt is very small, or under the same quasi-Fermi level split condition that corresponds to the same photocurrent density. In reality, by measuring the conductivity under the same photocurrent as a function of photon ﬂux, the 668 Y. Zhao et al. absorption coefﬁcients can be measured accurately in the low absorption region. This is the fundamental of CMP measurement (Fritzsche et al. 1984). Conductivity of Doped a-Si:H The advantage of a-Si:H over unhydrogenated a-Si is the hydrogen passivation of Si dangling bonds, which reduces the defect states and makes the material be able to be doped into N-type and P-type by incorporation of V-column and III-column doping elements, respectively. In PECVD deposition, the commonly used N-type doping gas is PH3; while p-type doing gas can be B2H6, BF3 or B(CH3)3 (TMB). The doping ratio such as PH3/SiH4 and B2H6/SiH4 is in the order of 1% in the application of solar cells, which could make the conductivity changes in a few orders of magnitudes. At the same time, the Fermi level can move to the conduction band tails for N-type doping and valence band tails for P-type doping. Correspondingly, the conductivity σd increases to 102 (Ωcm)1 and activation energy Ea decreases to 0.2 eV for N-type doping and the σd increases to 104103 (Ωcm)1 and activation energy Ea decreases to 0.30.4 eV for P-type doping. Because of the disorder, band tails, and defect states, the doping efﬁciency is low in a-Si:H. The disorder leads to atoms not necessarily be in the topological limita- tion, P and B can be in 4-cordinational substitution sites and can also be in 3-cordinational sites. In addition, the 3-cordinational sites have lower energy than the 4-cordinational sites, therefore most of dopants are in the 3-cordinated states with their energy levels in the band tails and do not contribute to doping. Only a small portion of the dopants forms shallow donors and shallow acceptors (Stutzmann and Street 1985). The doping also results in additional defect formation because the formation of Si dangling bonds reduces the total energy. Furthermore, most of donor electrons and acceptor holes are trapped in the tail states and defect states, which reduce the doping efﬁciency. The doping-associated defect generation increases with the increase of doping level. It was found that the doing efﬁciency follows (Street 1991) ηdoping ¼ Pactive Ptotal ¼ C 1 ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ Ptotal p , (20) where Pactive is the active dopant concentration, Ptotal the total dopant concentration, and C a constant. Because doped a-Si:H materials have a much higher defect density than intrinsic a-Si:H, causing a high recombination rate in doped materials, doped a-Si:H can only be used as the contact layers to form the built-in potential but cannot be used as the main absorber layer in solar cells. Therefore, a-Si:H solar cells are normally designed to be p-i-n or n-i-p structures, where the p, i, n are the p-layer, intrinsic-layer, and n-layer, respectively. The i-layer is the main light absorber layer to harvest the sun light to generate electron-hole pairs, and the built-in electric ﬁeld formed by the n and p layer to collect the photo-generated electron-hole pairs. In addition, the doping-associated defect generation and carrier trapping limit the Fermi level shift in the tail states, the Fermi level difference in the n-layer, and p-layer determines the upper limit of the built-in potential in a-Si:H solar cells. In order to 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 669 improve the built-in potential, doped μc-Si:H and nc-Si:H have been used for increasing the open circuit voltage (Voc). Furthermore, B doping reduces the bandgap of a-Si:H, increases the absorption in the p-layer, and hence reduces the short circuit current (Jsc). To minimize the absorption in the doped layers, wide bandgap doped hydrogenated amorphous and nanocrystalline silicon alloys such as a-SiCx:H, a-SiOx:H, nc-SiCx:H, and nc-SiOx:H have been used, which not only improve the Voc by enlarging the built-in potential and but also increase the Jsc by reducing the absorption in the doped layer. Metastability of a-Si:H: Staebler-Wronski Effect In 1977, Staebler and Wronski observed a light-induced metastable phenomenon in PECVD deposited a-Si:H ﬁlms (Staebler and Wronski 1977): the photoconductiv- ities and dark conductivities decrease with the illumination time and reach to another steady state after a prolonged light soaking. The light-induced degradation of conductivities can be recovered back to their original values after thermal annealing at 150C for 13 hours. This effect is called Staebler-Wronski effect, or S-Weffect. Figure 17 shows the changes of conductivity as a function of light soaking time. The Staebler-Wronski effect is an intrinsic bulk effect of a-Si:H and alloys, which is not caused by the surface band bending or impurity incorporation. Electron spin resonance (ESR) (Su and Taylor 2003) and other defect measurements showed that light soaking causes the creation of metastable defects, in which the Si dangling bond density could increase from1016 cm3 to 1017 cm3. The photo-generated metastable defects have an energy level near the middle of the bandgap and act as 10-2 10-4 10-6 10-8 10-10 10-12 0 2 4 6 8 B A DARK DARK OPTICAL EXPOSURE T = 25 C 10 TIME (h) CONDUCTIVITY (Ω cm)-1 Fig. 17 Light-induced conductivity changes as a function of light soaking time (Staebler and Wronski 1977) 670 Y. Zhao et al. recombination centers, which reduce a-Si:H solar cell efﬁciency. Except for the reduction of conductivity, there are other material property changes such as Fermi level shifting towards the middle of the bandgap, the reduction of carrier lifetime, the reduction of diffusion length, the main PL intensity decrease, defect-related PL increase, etc. Several models have been proposed to explore the mechanism of the Staebler-Wronski effect as discussed below. Si-Si Weak-Bond Breaking Model (Stutzmann et al. 1984) It is well known that a-Si:H contains a high density of weak Si-Si bonds in the order of 10181019 cm3. Under an illumination, the weak bonds could be broken and form two Si dangling bonds for each broken weak bond, but the two dangling bonds are close to each other and easily recombine to form a Si-Si bond again. Therefore, they are not stable. However, a-Si:H contains 1015% at. H, and many Si-Si weak bonds are close to Si-H bonds; when one Si-Si weak bond is broken by photon energy to form two Si dangling bonds, the nearby H of the Si-H could ﬂip over to form Si-H bond and leave a new Si dangling bond separately from the other originally generated Si dangling bond. Therefore, the weak-bond breaking model includes two steps: the weak-bond breaking and the H movement. Charge Transfer Model (Adler 1981) As previously motioned, when a Si dangling bond is occupied by two electrons (double occupation), additional energy is needed, which is called effective correla- tion energy Ueff. For a-Si:H, most experiments support a positive Ueff, and therefore neutral dangling D0 bonds are the major defects in a-Si:H. However, Alder (1981) believed that because of the disorder, in a-Si:H the lattices could be relaxed when an additional electron is trapped in the dangling bonds and causes an effective low energy, which could result in a negative Ueff. In this case, the stable Si dangling bonds would be in zero-occupied D+ and double-occupied D states. Under illumi- nation, photo-generated electrons could be trapped into D+ and holes into D, and then convert them into D0, increase the ESR detected D0 density, and reduce the dark conductivity and photoconductivity. Hydrogen Collision Model (Branz 1998, 2003) In 1998, Branz proposed a new model called hydrogen collision model to explain the Staebler-Wronski effect (Branz 1998, 2003). He proposed that the nonradiative recombination of photo-generated electrons and holes releases the energy to break Si-H bonds, and generates a Si dangling bond and a mobile H atom. When the moving H meets a Si-Si weak bond, it may break the Si-Si weak bond, and form a new Si-H bond and a Si dangling bond. However, when the H moves away the two dangling bonds could recombine to get back into their initial state. In this case, it looks like a mobile H moves in the network. The moving H has two consequences. First, a mobile H meets another Si dangling bond and forms a new Si-H bond, and in this case, no new Si dangling is generated. Second, a mobile H meets another mobile H and forms a metastable state (Si-H)2, and leaves a Si dangling bond at the original location. Most of the mobile H atoms end up in the ﬁrst state with no new defect 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 671 generation, but some others end up with second metastable state and produce a new defect. Therefore, the net effect of illumination is the generation of a Si dangling bond and a metastable (Si-H)2 complex. The weak-bond breaking model and charge transfer model only consider the local chemical bond changes during an illumination. While the H collision model suggests that the light-induced defect generation not only involves the change of local chemical bonds, but also the long range H transport, therefore the metastability depends on the H content, the degree of disorders, and the microvoids in a-Si:H materials. Light-Induced Structure Change in a-Si:H Light-induced changes in a-Si:H causes not only microscopic structure changes such as defect generation, which results in the electric and optical property change, but also other macroscopic property changes such as the structure. The structure changes are so large that the individual microscopic defect generation cannot explain them; instead the whole amorphous network must be changed during light soaking. The light-induced degradation is deﬁnitely related to the energy released during the electron and hole recombination. If one recombination could release about 1.3 eV of energy and transfer this energy into the local amorphous network such as 10 atoms, it could cause a large local temperature rising, result in the deviation from the initial state, and then transfer the energy to far distance. In the case, many physical property changes can only be explained with light-induced structure changes. For example, (1) nuclear magnetic reso- nance (NMR) measurements found that the dipole relaxation time is related to a large range bonded H atom (Hari et al. 1994); (2) X-ray photoemission spectros- copy (XPS) found that illumination leads to a 0.1 eV red shift in the Si 2P emission peak (Masson et al. 1995); (3) it was found that the 1/f noise spectrum changes from an non-Gaussian distribution to a Gaussian distribution, indicating a massive structure change (Fan and Kakalios 1994); (4) FTIR measurements observed an 1.3% increase of the vibration strength of Si-H stretching mode (2000 cm1), which could result from light-induced Si-H vibration strength increase and the Si-H concentration increase (Zhao et al. 1995); (5) it was also found that light soaking induced a large change in the ratio of isotropic and anisotropic polariza- tion absorption, implying a light-induced bond angle change that is related to a long range disorder (Hata et al. 1997); (6) it was observed that the low frequency dielectric constant showed an eversible light-induced change (Yue et al. 1998); and (7) the volume of a-Si:H material showed an eversible explanation during and after light soaking (Kong et al. 1997). All of these experiments suggest that the light-induced degradation in a-Si:H not only results in metastable Si dangling bond generation, but also causes the amorphous network changes. The defect generation is the consequence of amorphous network change (Shimizu et al. 1998). 672 Y. Zhao et al. Amorphous Silicon Alloy The bandgap of a-Si:H is 1.701.85 eV, depending on the hydrogen content. Although it covers the large portion of the solar spectrum for wavelength up to 700 nm, but it still cannot absorb the longer wavelength light. Also for the short wavelength light, the part of photo energy larger than the bandgap is lost by thermal relaxation. In order to achieve a high efﬁciency, multijunction solar cells with different bandgaps are preferred. By alloying a-Si:H with other elements such as C, Ge, O, and N, the bandgap can be adjusted to desired values. For example, a-SiCx:H and a-SiOx:H have a larger bandgap, while a-SiGex:H has a lower bandgap than a-Si:H, which are suitable for the absorber layers in multijunction solar cells. However, the wide bandgap a-SiCx:H and a-SiOx:H alloys normally have a high defect density and hardly can be used as the absorber layers for high efﬁciency solar cells; they are used as the window p layer in a-Si:H solar cells, while a-SiGe:H has been widely used as the intrinsic absorber layer in the middle and bottom cell of multijunction solar cells (Yang et al. 1997). A-SiCx:H Alloy In the early 1980s, Tawada et al. made a-SiCx:H by PECVD using a SiH4 and CH4 mixture and doped with B2H6 to make p-type a-SiCx:H as the p-layer of a-Si:H p-i-n solar cells, which improved the Voc, Jsc, and efﬁciency (Tawada et al. 1982). B incorporation in a-Si:H not only forms doing sites, but also forms alloy to reduce the p-layer bandgap, alloying C into B doped a-Si:H to form P-type a-SiCx:H compensates the bandgap narrowing by B. The bandgap of a-SiCx:H is proportional to C/Si ratio. A good a-SiCx:H p-layer normally contains 15% of C and has an optical bandgap of 2 eV. Using B2H6 as the doping gas is easy to form B cluster and reduces the transparency of the p-layer. Nowadays, the commonly used p-type doping gas is B (CH3)3 or BF3. In addition, the a-SiCx:H p layer has a larger bandgap than a-Si:H intrinsic layer, an intrinsic a-SiCx:H buffer layer with grading C content is used to smooth the bandgap offset (Komuro et al. 1984). Internal photo-emission measurements found that the conduction band edge moves up in a-SiCx:H, while its valence band edge does not change much, which means that the bandgap offset at a-SiCx:H/a-Si:H interface is mainly at the conduction band, which blocks electron back diffusion at the p-a-SiC:H/i-a-Si:H interface and does not affect the hole transport. Therefore, p-a-SiC:H is an ideal p layer for a-Si:H solar cells, but it is not suitable for n layer, because the conduction bandgap offset blocks the electron transport from the i-a-Si:H into n-a-SiCx:H. In order to improve a-Si:H solar cell performance, p-type nc-SiCx:H and μc- SiCx:H have been well studied. They have a higher dark conductivity than p-type a-SiC:H. By increasing the H dilution, one can change a-SiCx:H into μc-SiCx:H and increase the conductivity to 103102 (Ωcm)1 (Demichelis et al. 1992; Hou et al. 2015), which improves Voc of a-Si:H solar cells further. 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 673 A-SiGe:H Alloy a-SiGe:H is a narrow bandgap material used as the absorber layers in the middle and bottom cells of a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H double-junction and a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple-junction solar cells, which is made by mixing GeH4 into SiH4 and H2 in the reactant gases of PECVD process. In the late 1970s, Chevallier et al. (1977) deposited a-SiGe:H alloy using RF PECVD and adjusted the bandgap in the range between 1.7 eVand 1.0 eV. However, for solar cell application, the bandgap is normally in the range of 1.5 eVand 1.65 eV, depending on the design of solar cells. Because the Ge-Ge and Ge-H bonds are much weaker than the Si-Si and Si-H bonds, the defect density increases dramatically with the increase of Ge content in the ﬁlms, especially for the bandgap 1.5 eV. In addition, the structure nonuniformity in a-SiGe:H also leads to high defect density in a-SiGe:H with high Ge content (Cohen 2003; Paul 1988). The defects in a-SiGe:H is mainly Ge dangling bonds because hydrogen does not passivate Ge dangling bonds effectively (Cohen 2003), and the electron drift mobility is decreased signiﬁcantly with the increase of Ge content (Bauer et al. 1989; Gu et al. 1994; Schiff 2003). Because GeH3 is heavier than SiH3 radicals and the diffusion coefﬁcient of GeH3 on the growth surface is much lower than SiH3, the optimized deposition tempera- ture for a-SiGe:H should be higher than a-Si:H, especially at high deposition rate. It is normally in the range of 230300C (Lundszien et al. 1997). An effective way to improve a-SiGe:H quality is high hydrogen dilution. It was found that the best a-Si:H materials are made under the hydrogen dilution just before the transition from amorphous phase to microcrystalline phase (Guha et al. 2003). However, the tran- sition from a-SiGe:H to μc-SiGe:H requires a higher hydrogen dilution than the a-Si: H to μc-Si:H transition, and therefore an optimized a-SiGe:H also needs a much higher hydrogen dilution than an optimized a-Si:H. With a high hydrogen dilution, the substrate temperature could be lowered for high-quality a-SiGe:H deposition, which is important for p-i-n structured a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H multijunction solar cells on TCO-coated glass substrates since the a-Si:H top cell is deposited at a lower temperature ﬁrst. The side effect of high hydrogen dilution is to reduce the deposi- tion rate. The deposition rate could be increased by increasing the RF power in RF-PECVD deposition, but the high ion bombardment results in a poor quality. Yang et al. (2001) found that using VHF-PECVD can increase the deposition rate of a-SiGe:H without signiﬁcant material quality degradation. Another issue of a-SiG:H deposition with PECVD is the difference of decompo- sition rates of SiH4 and GH4 (Liao et al. 2005). The decomposition rate of GeH4 is about 35 times higher than SiH4, which makes it difﬁcult to control the Ge/Si ratio precisely and uniformly in a-SiGe:H; while Si2H6 and GeH4 have the similar decomposition rates, and therefore Si2H6 + GeH4 mixture was used for the champion a-SiGe:H solar cell depositions. However, Si2H6 is much more expensive than SiH4 and is not cost-effective in mass production for solar panels, where SiH4 + GeH4 mixture has been used. Nowadays, a-SiGe:H has been widely used in multijunction solar cells. For the high efﬁciency a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple-junction solar cells (Yang et al. 674 Y. Zhao et al. 2003), the intrinsic a-SiGe:H layer in middle cell was made with Ge content of 15% and with a bandgap of 1.65 eV, while the a-SiGe:H in the bottom cell was made with Ge content of 2025% and with a bandgap of 1.55 eV. In addition, other material parameters should be optimized to have an Urbach band-tail energy 60 mV, dark and photoconductivities in the order of 1  108 (Ωcm)1 and 1  105 (Ωcm)1, respectively, and activation energy of 0.7 eV. A-Si:H Alloy Solar Cells Because of the material properties of a-Si:H and its alloy as discussed above are very different from c-Si, a-Si:H solar cells should be designed with different device structures by considering the unique material properties, such as high absorption coefﬁcient, low mobility-lifetime product, and light-induced metastability. The advan- tage of high absorption coefﬁcient allows using a thin absorber layer, but the low mobility-lifetime product and the metastability limits the absorber layer thickness, hence the photocurrent density. In addition, the high defect density in the doped layers results in that the normal p-n junction structure used in c-Si solar cell does not work for a-Si:H solar cells; instead p-i-n or n-i-p structures are used. In addition, for increasing the cell efﬁciency and reducing the light-induced degradation, multijunction solar cells are used in both research and development as well as PV module production. Below we present various a-Si:H based solar cells and discuss their advantages and issues. Principle of a-Si:H Single-Junction Solar Cell Crystalline solar cells are normally made with p-n junctions, where p and n are N-type and P-type semiconductors, respectively. The carrier diffusion length is longer enough such that photo-generated carriers can diffuse into the junction region and are separated by the narrow built-in electric ﬁeld. However, the carrier mobility and life in a-Si:H alloys are much lower than in c-Si, consequently the photo- generated carrier diffusion length is too short such that they are recombined before reaching the junction region in a p-n junction structure. To resolve this issue, p-i-n structures have been used for a-Si:H solar cells, where p layer and n layer are very thin, which only function to form the built-in potential, i represents a relatively thick intrinsic layer, where the sun light is mainly absorbed in this region. As shown in Fig.18 (Deng and Schiff 2003), in the dark or near dark condition, the three p, i, and n layers have the same Fermi level when they connect with each other to form a solar cell. The difference of the dark Fermi levels in the p and n layers when they are individual creates a built-in potential Vb and results in an electric ﬁeld across the i layer. When the cell is illuminated, the photo-generated electron-hole pairs in the i- layer are separated by the built-in electric ﬁeld and move towards the opposite directions: electrons to the n layer and holes to the p layer. In the open circuit 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 675 condition, the photo-generated electrons are accumulated in the n layer and the photo-generated holes in the p layer, which results in an electric ﬁeld with the opposite direction with the built-in electric ﬁeld to reduce the photocarriers accu- mulation further, and ﬁnally it reaches a steady state condition with no net current ﬂow. In this condition, the photo-generated voltage is the open circuit voltage (Voc), one of the important parameters determining solar cell efﬁciency. When the solar cell is in the short circuit condition that the two terminals are connected directly without any load, most of the photo-generated carriers are swiped by the built-in electric ﬁeld and collected by the p layer and n layer to form photocurrent. The photocurrent density obtained in this case is the short current density (Jsc), another important parameter that determines the solar cell efﬁciency. When a load is connected to the two terminals of the solar cell, the photocurrent density is normally smaller than the Jsc, and the voltage is smaller than the Voc. The output power density of the solar cell is the product of the voltage and the current density (P=V  J). The output power depends on the load. Scanning the load (or varying the bias voltage), the output reaches a maximum, which is called the maximum power density (Pmax), and the corresponding voltage and current density are called maximum power voltage (Vmax) and maximum power current density (Jmax). The solar cell efﬁciency is deﬁned as the ratio of the maximum power density and input light intensity. Eff ¼ PMax PLight ¼ Vmax  Jmax PLight ¼ Jsc  Voc  FF PLight , (21) Fig. 18 Band diagram of a-Si:H solar cell, (a) in the short circuit and near dark condition, (b) under illumination and open circuit condition (Deng and Schiff 2003) 676 Y. Zhao et al. where FF is the ﬁll factor deﬁned by the ratio of FF ¼ Pmax Jsc  Voc ¼ Jmax  Vmax Jsc  Voc : (22) It is clear that the solar cell efﬁciency is determined by the three factors of Jsc, Voc, and FF. Their values are affected by many material properties and device struc- tures. First, the bandgap of the intrinsic layer determines the Voc and Jsc. A wide bandgap of the i layer allows a wide quasi-Fermi level split and hence a high Voc, but low Jsc because of low absorption for the long wavelength photons, therefore an optimized bandgap for the i layer is very important for a-Si:H alloy solar cells, especially for multijunction solar cells. In practical a-Si:H alloy solar cells, a-SiCx: H and a-SiOx:H could be used as the wide bandgap i-layer for high Voc top cell and a-SiGe:H as the narrow bandgap i-layer for high current density in multijunction solar cells. Second, the Voc is also limited by the built-in potential, and therefore determined by Fermi level difference of the p and n layers. Optimized doped layers such as P-type and N-type a-SiCx:H, a-SiOx:H, nc-SiCx:H, and nc-SiOx:H are widely used in high efﬁciency solar cells. Third, the band tails in the i-layer and the deep level defects also strongly affect the cell efﬁciency. A wide band-tail state distribution limits the quasi-Fermi level split and therefore limits the Voc; it also reduces the carrier drift mobility, hence reduces the FF. A high defect density leads to a high recombination rate and reduces all three parameters of Jsc, Voc, and FF. Furthermore, the device design such as the thickness of each layer, the interface between the doped layer and the i-layer also have a signiﬁcant impact on a-Si:H solar cell performance. Another important feature of a-Si:H alloy solar cells is the sequence of the layer structure. Because the hole mobility-lifetime product (μτ)h is much lower than electron (μτ)e, holes have a smaller collection length than electrons. As a conse- quence, a-Si:H alloy solar cells are normally designed to have the light illumination from the p side such that the generation of electron-hole pairs is much more in the region near the p-layer than near the n-layer, where the majority of holes travel a shorter distance to reach the p-layer than electrons to the n-layer. In this way, the solar cell has a high efﬁciency than the light illumination from the n-layer. Based on this design principle and the substrate type, a-Si:H alloy solar cells is divided into p-i-n and n-i-p structures. A-Si:H Alloy p-i-n Single-Junction Solar Cell As shown in Fig. 19a, a-Si:H alloy p-i-n single-junction solar cells are deposited on transparent substrates such that the light passes through the substrate to illuminate the solar cell through the p-layer, thus the substrate is also called superstrate in this conﬁguration. The superstrate is normally a glass or transparent polymer with a transparent conductive oxide (TCO) coating, which has two functions of allowing 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 677 light to pass through and providing the electric contact for current collection. Commonly used TCOs are Al doped ZnO (AZO), B doped ZnO (BZO), Ga doped ZnO (GZO), F doped SnO2, (FTO), and ITO. The a-Si:H layers are deposited in the sequence of p, i, n on the TCO-coated glass, then another TCO layer is deposited on the n-layer following with a metal electrode for photo-electron collection. The p layer uses B doped a-SiC:H and a-SiOx:H for wide bandgap to reduce the absorption in the p-layer, and further uses nc-SiCx:H, nc-SiOx:H, and nc-Si:H for high conductivity to reduce the electric loss. Because the light ﬁrst goes through it, the p-layer is also called the window layer. A wide bandgap p-layer not only improves the Voc, but also the Jsc, hence the efﬁciency. Because the P-type window layer normally has a wider bandgap than the i layer, a buffer layer with an inter- medium bandgap or a bandgap grading is inserted between the p and i layers, which reduces the bandgap discontinuity and reduces the interface defect density. A proper buffer layer can effectively improve the FF and hence the efﬁciency. The i-layer could be undoped a-Si:H, a-SiCx:H, a-SiOx:H, and a-SiGe:H. The wide bandgap a-SiCx:H and a-SiOx:H are used as the top cell in multijunction solar cells, while the narrow bandgap a-SiGe:H is used for the middle and bottom cells in multijunction solar cells. However, the undoped a-SiCx:H and a-SiOx:H have much higher defect density than a-Si:H, they are not commonly used in real multijunction solar panel production except for some research activities. The n-layer normally uses nc-Si:H and nc-SiOx:H to improve the doping efﬁciency for high Voc and to reduce the electric loss for improving FF. The back TCO has three functions: (1) reducing the plasmonic absorption losses at the Si/metal interface, (2) adding additional texture Fig. 19 a-Si:H single-junction solar cell structure, (a) p-i-n structure on TCO/glass substrate and (b) n-i-p on ZnO/Ag/SS substrate 678 Y. Zhao et al. for light scattering, and (3) blocking the metal ion diffusion into the a-Si:H layer. Finally, a metal back contact is deposited on the TCO, which provides the electrode for photoelectron collection and reﬂects the light back to the i-layer for improving the Jsc, therefore the back TCO/metal contact is called back reﬂector. Commonly used back metal contacts are Ag, Al, or Ag/Al bilayers. Ag has a much better reﬂectivity than Al, but it is more expensive for solar module production. A-Si:H Alloy n-i-p Single-Junction Solar Cell Contrast to the p-i-n structure, another type of a-Si:H solar cell is n-i-p solar cell as shown in Fig. 19b, which is normally deposited on nontransparent substrates such as stainless steel (SS) and polyimide such as Kapton. The solar cell structure consists a back reﬂector, n, i, p a-Si:H layers, a top TCO, and a metal grid. Light illuminates the solar cell on the p side through the top TCO and generates a high density of electron- hole pairs near the p region to minimize the disadvantage of smaller (μτ)h holes than electrons (μτ)e. The commonly used back reﬂectors are Ag/ZnO, Al/ZnO, and Al/Ag/ZnO. On the back reﬂector, the a-Si:H layers are deposited in the order of n, i, and p layers. The top TCO layer is deposited on the p-layer to collect photo- generated holes. The top TCO is high conductive ITO, which needs to have two functions: (1) providing the electric contact and (2) adding antireﬂection effect to reduce the reﬂection loss. A quarter wavelength (λ/4n) of the solar spectrum peak at 550 nm is selected for the ITO thickness, which is designed at 7080 nm. Because the top TCO is very thin, conventional AZO and BZO does not have the high conductivity for collecting the current efﬁciently. Even with ITO, top metal grids are needed to collect the photocurrent and reduce the series resistance. Compared with p-i-n solar cells, n-i-p solar cells have the following character- istics. First, the a-Si:H deposition starts from n-layer on the back reﬂector. Because the normally used Ag/ZnO back reﬂector is relatively stable in H plasma, a wide range for n-layer deposition conditions is allowed, especially for using nc-Si:H and nc-SiOx:H n-layer, which not only has high conductivity for reducing the resistance loss, but also provides a seeding layer for μc-Si:H growth for μc-Si: H solar cells. Furthermore, the p-layer is directly deposited on the i-layer, which is much easier to form nc-Si:H, nc-SiOx:H, and nc-SiCx:H than on a foreign substrate such as TCO. The shortcomings of n-i-p solar cells include that (1) the metal grids on the thin ITO top contact reduce some areas for light illumination; (2) no additional textures are formed by ITO and thus the light trapping solely relies on the back reﬂector, which requires a high-quality back reﬂector for an effective light trapping. A-SiGe:H Alloy Single-Junction Solar Cell a-Si:H has a bandgap of 1.75 eV, corresponding to an absorption edge at 700 nm. It does not absorb enough red lights to produce a high photocurrent density. One 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 679 might be able to tune the bandgap a little bit by a high substrate temperature and/or low hydrogen dilution, but the change for the bandgap is very limited and it could cause other negative effects such as a high defect density. In order to absorb the red light efﬁciently, a narrow bandgap absorber layer is needed. Among the choices, a-SiGe:H is the primary candidate, because Ge is next to Si in the periodic table and can form the same crystalline structure as Si when it is alloyed with Si. The bandgap of a-SiGe:H can be varied in a wide range by changing the Ge/Si ratio to satisfy the requirement for multijunction solar cell design. Table 1 lists three component cells in a a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple-junction solar cell (Yang et al. 2003). The top cell is with a a-Si:H intrinsic layer, the middle cell with a medium bandgap (1.65 eV) a-SiGe:H intrinsic layer made of 1520% of Ge, and the bottom cell with a low bandgap (1.55 eV) a-SiGe:H intrinsic layer made of 2530% of Ge. In order to simulate the real situation in the triple-junction structure, the a-Si:H top cell and the a-SiGe:H middle cell were deposited on bare stainless steel (SS) substrates because these two component cells did not receive much of the reﬂected light in the triple- junction structure. While the a-SiGe:H bottom cell was deposited on a Ag/ZnO back reﬂector coated SS since this was the same as in the triple-junction structure. In addition, the results show the long wavelength performances similar to the situations in the triple-junction solar cell, where the middle cell was measured with a 530-nm long-pass ﬁlter and the bottom cell with a 630-nm long-pass ﬁlter. The Ag/ZnO back reﬂector can signiﬁcantly increase the photocurrent density. Figure 20 plots a comparison of external quantum efﬁciencies of an a-SiGe:H solar cell deposited on SS, SS/Al/ZnO, and SS/Ag/ZnO substrates. It clearly shows that the solar cells on the back reﬂector have a much higher long wavelength response than the cell on the bare SS with total current increase of 20% by the Al/ZnO back reﬂector and 30% by the Ag/ZnO back reﬂector. Compared to the a-Si:H top cell, the a-SiGe:H middle and bottom cells have much lower FF caused by the higher defect density in a-SiGe:H than in a-Si:H; and the light-induced degradation is also higher in a-SiGe:H than in a-Si:H solar cells. As mentioned previously, the Ge-H bonds are much weaker than the Si-H bonds and therefore H does not passivate Ge dangling bonds as effective as Si dangling bonds. The defect density increases with Ge content in a-SiGe:H ﬁlms. The same as in a-Si:H, the hole mobility-lifetime product (μτ)h is much lower than electron mobility-lifetime product (μτ)e in a-SiGe:H. The short hole collec- tion length is the major limitation for a-SiGe:H solar cell efﬁciency. To minimize Table 1 Solar cell performance parameters of a-Si:H top cell, a-SiGe:H middle cell, and a-SiGe:H bottom cell used in a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple-junction structures (Yang et al. 2003) Cell type State Jsc (mA/cm2) Voc (V) FF Pmax (mW/cm2) a-Si:H Top Initial 9.03 1.024 0.773 7.15 Stable 8.76 0.990 0.711 6.17 a-SiGe:H Middle Initial 10.29 0.754 0.679 5.27 Stable 9.72 0.772 0.600 4.21 a-SiGe:H Bottom Initial 12.2 0.631 0.671 5.17 Stable 11.1 0.609 0.622 4.21 680 Y. Zhao et al. the inﬂuence of unbalanced carrier transport properties on the cell performance, Guha et al. (1989) invented a unique method called bandgap proﬁling to improve a-SiGe:H solar cells. Figure 21 shows four different bandgap proﬁles: (a) a ﬂat bandgap, (b) a proﬁle of narrower bandgap in the p side (illumination side) and wider in the n side (the back side), (c) opposite to (b) with wider bandgap in the p side (illumination side) and narrower bandgap in the n side (the back side), and (d) a proﬁle with a small bandgap decreasing region from the p-layer and a large bandgap increase region from the minimum toward n-layer (called V-shape proﬁle). From carrier transport view, proﬁle (b) is better than (a) because the narrower bandgap near the p side results in more photocarrier generation in this region, in which holes travels a short distance to reach the p-layer. In addition, the tilted bandgap provides additional force for hole transport and decelerates elec- trons, balancing the difference between (μτ)h and (μτ)e. From the absorption point of view proﬁle (c) is better than (b) because high energy photons are absorbed in CB VB CB VB CB VB Light Light Light Light (a) (b) (c) (d) CB VB Fig. 21 Schematics of bandgap proﬁles investigated in a-SiGe:H solar cells 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 350 450 550 650 750 850 950 onAg/ZnO onAl/ZnO onSS 16.65 19.91 21.65 mA/cm2 Wavelength (nm) QE Fig. 20 The quantum efﬁciency (QE) comparison of an a-SiGe:H single-junction solar cell deposited on bare SS, Al/ZnO, and on Ag/ZnO back reﬂector coated SS 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 681 the shallow region with the wide bandgap and low energy ones are absorbed in the deep region with the narrow bandgap, but the hole transport faces a difﬁculty to travel longer distance with a decelerating force caused by the bandgap proﬁle. Although (b) is favorable for hole transport, the narrower bandgap near the p-layer causes a large bandgap discontinuity at the p/i interface and results in a high density of interface states. To resolve this interface issue, the V-shape proﬁle is designed as shown in (d) with a short opposite proﬁle to compromise the hole transport and bandgap continuity at the p/i interface. Experimental results showed that the V-shape proﬁle is indeed an optimized bandgap proﬁle and yielded high performance a-SiGe:H solar cells. Figure 22 plots the J-V characteristics of the a-SiGe:H middle and bottom solar cells used in high efﬁciency a-Si:H/ a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple-junction solar cells (Yang et al. 1994). The single- junction a-SiGe:H solar cells have supper performance of efﬁciency over 10%. A-Si:H Alloy-Based Multijunction Solar Cells Because the solar spectrum is very wide from the ultraviolet to infrared, it is obvious that a semiconductor with a given bandgap cannot effectively use all of the solar energy. The photons with energy smaller than the bandgap cannot be absorbed, while the photons with energy higher than the bandgap can only use the part of energy equal to the bandgap and lose the portion of energy larger than the bandgap by thermal relaxation. Multijunction solar cells with different bandgaps in the compo- nent cells can resolve this issue with the wide bandgap top cell absorbing the short wavelength photons, the middle cell absorbing the middle wavelength photons, and the bottom cell for the long wavelength ones. For a-Si:H alloys, commonly used multijunction solar cells structures are shown in Fig. 23, including a-Si:H/a-Si:H double-junction, a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H double-junction, and a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H Fig. 22 J-V characteristics of a-SiGe:H solar cells on SS/Ag/ZnO substrates. The left and right plots are the middle and bottom cells, respectively, used in a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple- junction solar cells (Yang et al. 1994) 682 Y. Zhao et al. triple-junction structures. Compared with a-Si:H single-junction solar cells, multi- junction solar cells have not only high efﬁciency but also improved stability against light soaking. Basically, a multijunction solar cell is constructed with the component cells stacked on top of each other. We use a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H double-junction as an example to discuss the operation principle of multijunction solar cells. It consists a a-Si:H n-i-p top cell on a a-SiGe:H bottom cell. In the ideal condition with no losses at the contact between the top cell and the bottom cell, the voltage of the double-junction cell equals to the sum of the voltages of the top and bottom cells; the photocurrent takes the smaller one; the FF is determined by the current mismatching between the top and bottom cells and the FF of component cells (Yan et al. 2008). One principle of designing multijunction solar cell is to have the component cell with the highest FF and the lowest light-induced degradation as the limiting cell (the smallest current density), which not only leads to a high initial efﬁciency but also an improved stability. Another important element in multijunction solar cells is the connection between two solar cells, where the n-layer of the top cell is directly deposited on the p-layer of the bottom cell, which is an invert n/p junction respecting to the main n-i-p junctions. The photo-electrons from the top cell need to recombine with the photo- holes from the bottom cell to form a continuous current. Because the electrons and holes need to tunnel through a certain distance to meet each other, the n/p junction connecting the top and bottom cells is also called recombination tunnel-junction (RTJ). If the carriers cannot tunnel into the opposite side, they accumulate in the n/p junction, cause a photo-voltage opposite to the main photo-voltage, and reduce the cell performance. One effective way to optimize the tunnel-junction is to use nc-Si:H p and/or n layers, where the carrier mobility is much higher than in a-Si:H n and p layers resulting in a long tunnel length, in this case an Ohmic contact with a low resistance forms. ITO ITO ITO ITO p p p n n n n n Ag Ag Ag Ag Stainless Steel Stainless Steel Stainless Steel Stainless Steel n p p n p n p p i a-Si:H ZnO ZnO ZnO ZnO i a-Si:H i a-Si:H i a-Si:H i a-Si:H i a-SiGe:H i a-SiGe:H i a-SiGe:H Fig. 23 a-Si:H alloy multijunction solar cell structures investigated in United Solar (Yang et al. 2003) 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 683 A-Si:H/a-Si:H Double-Junction Solar Cell a-Si:H/a-Si:H double-junction solar cell is the simplest multijunction solar cell. Although it is constructed with two a-Si:H solar cells with the same or similar bandgap and it does not take the advantage of expanding the absorption spectrum, it usually has a higher FF, hence efﬁciency and a better stability than a-Si:H single- junction solar cells. a-Si:H/a-Si:H double-junction solar cell had been used for manufactures in the early stage of thin ﬁlm silicon solar module production. As mentioned previously, the two component cells need to have similar photocurrent densities, the top cell acts as a ﬁlter for the bottom cell, therefore, the bottom cell needs to be much thicker than the top cell for matching the current. For example, in a high efﬁcient n-i-p structured a-Si:H/a-Si:H double-junction solar cell on SS/Ag/ ZnO substrates, the top cell and bottom cell thicknesses are around 100 nm and 300 nm. Table 2 lists the J-V characteristics of two a-Si:H/a-Si:H double-junction solar cells, where the ﬁrst one is with the conventional tunnel junction and the second one with an improved tunnel junction (Yang et al. 2003). The improved tunnel junction improved all of the three performance parameters, hence improved the efﬁciency. A-Si:H/a-SiGe:H Double-Junction Solar Cell From the data above, one can see that the limiting factor for a-Si:H/a-Si:H double- junction solar cells is the short circuit current density Jsc, which is limited by the bandgap of the bottom cell. In order to improve the long wavelength response, a-SiGe:H is used to substitute the i-layer of the bottom cell. The bandgap of the a-SiGe:H layer is adjustable by varying the Ge content. Because reducing the bandgap not only increases the photo-current density, but also reduces the Voc and FF. Therefore, a systematic optimization is needed to search the optimized a-SiGe:H intrinsic layer. The best a-SiGe:H used in United Solar is with a bandgap around 1.6 eV made with 1520% Ge content. The a-SiGe:H single-junction solar cell on SS/Ag/ZnO substrate made under this condition shows Voc in the range of 0.750.80 V, Jsc in the range 2223 mA/cm2. Using the a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H double- junction structure, initial and stable efﬁciencies of 14.4% and 12.4% were achieved, respectively (Yang et al. 1998). Table 2 a-Si:H/a-Si:H double-junction soar cell characteristics (Yang et al. 2003) Tunnel- junction Jsc (mA/cm2) Voc (V) FF Eff (%) QE(top) (mA/cm2) QE(bottom) (mA/cm2) QE(total) (mA/cm2) Rs (Ωcm2) Standard 7.97 1.901 0.752 11.15 7.97 7.80 15.77 15.0 Optimized 8.06 1.919 0.766 11.85 8.06 8.28 16.34 14.3 Note: The short current densities are taken from the integrals of EQE with AM1.5 solar spectrum 684 Y. Zhao et al. A-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H Triple-Junction Solar Cell In order to improve the efﬁciency further, a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple-junction solar cell has been studied since 1980s in Energy Conversion Devices, Inc. Similar to the double-junction solar cells, the a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple-junction structure is deposited on SS/Ag/ZnO substrate. In 1986, Yang et al. (1986) achieved an initial conversion efﬁciency of 13%, and later in 1997, they advanced the initial and table efﬁciencies to 14.6% and 13.0%, respectively (Yang et al. 1997). Figure 24 shows the J-V characteristics and EQE curves of record efﬁciency solar cell. First, the triple-junction solar cell can use the wide solar spectrum effectively as shown in Fig. 24b, which covers the wide range of 300950 nm; second, the FF of the triple- junction solar cell is much higher than single-junction and double-junction solar cells because the current mismatch improves the FF. The a-Si:H top cell has less defect density than the a-SiGe:H middle and bottom cells, therefore, an optimized cell structure should be designed with a thin top cell such that the top cell is the current-limiting cell to achieve a high FF in the triple-junction structure. Table 3 lists the solar cell performance parameters of different solar cell structures made in United Solar. Because the a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple-junction solar cell struc- ture not only yields the highest efﬁciency, but also has the best stability, United Solar had used the a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple-junction structure for manufacturing ﬂexible solar laminates and had a manufacture capability of 180 MW/year (Izu and Ellison 2003). A-Si:H/c-Si Heterojunction Solar Cell (SHJ or HIT) In recent years, crystalline silicon material price has been dropped signiﬁcantly and poly-Si and c-Si solar cell technology has been improved remarkably as well, which Fig. 24 J-V characteristics and EQE curves of a a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple-junction solar cell with an initial efﬁciency of 14.6% and stable efﬁciency of 13.0% (Yang et al. 1997) 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 685 have led a signiﬁcant manufacturing cost reduction of crystalline silicon solar modules. On one hand, it has made a great progress towards grid parity for PV technology to provide clean and green energy for the society; but on the other hand, it has made the so-called second-generation thin ﬁlm solar cell technology to lose their advantages in the market. Most (if not all) thin ﬁlm silicon PV manufacturing companies went out of business. However, combing a-Si:H and c-Si to make a-Si:H/ c-Si heterojunction solar cells (SHJ) has become an advanced high efﬁciency silicon PV technology. Because it uses a very thin intrinsic (5 nm) a-Si:H layer to passivate c-Si interface, it is also often called HIT (Heterojunction with Intrinsic Thin layer) solar cell. Except for the a-Si:H passivation layer, HIT solar cell also uses a doped p- a-Si:H to form the emitter junction and a doped n-a-Si:H to form the back ﬁeld junction. The cell structure is shown in Fig. 25. HIT solar cell was initially invented by Sanyo in Japan in the 1990s (now it is Panasonic) (Taguchi et al. 1990). With the expiration of initial Intellectual Property of Sanyo, many companies and institutes have joined the research and development as well as the production of HIT solar cells. The cell and module efﬁciencies have been steadily improved. The cell efﬁciency reached 25.6% in 2014 by Panasonic Table 3 The highest cell efficiency achieved by United Solar with different cell structure (Yang et al. 2003) Cell structure State Jsc (mA/cm2) Voc (V) FF Eff (%) Deg. (%) a-Si:H Single-junction Initial 14.65 0.992 0.730 10.6 12.3 Stable 14.36 0.965 0.672 9.3 a-Si:H/a-Si:H Double-junction Initial 7.90 1.89 0.760 11.4 11.4 Stable 7.90 1.83 0.700 10.1 a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H Double-junction Initial 11.04 1.762 0.738 14.4 13.9 Stable 10.68 1.713 0.676 12.4 a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H Triple-junction Initial 8.57 2.357 0.723 14.6 11.0 Stable 8.27 2.294 0.684 13.0 Fig. 25 Schematic drawing of a HIT solar cell (Wolf et al. 2012) 686 Y. Zhao et al. (Masuko et al. 2014) and 26.3% by Kaneka in 2016 (http://www.kaneka.co.jp/ kaneka-e/images/topics/1473811995/1473811995_101.pdf.). With the improvement of cell efﬁciency and manufacturing technology, HITsolar cell would lead to another big wave in the solar PV industry. HIT solar cell has several better characteristics than the conventional homo- junction c-Si solar cells. First, it uses N-type c-Si wafer, which has higher minority carrier lifetime than P-type c-Si wafer even with the same impurity level. Second, because of no boron-oxygen complexes in N-type c-Si, HIT solar cell shows much less light-induced degradation than conventional c-Si solar cells with P-type wafer. Third, because of the a-Si:H passivation layer and a-Si:H doped layer, HIT solar cell has much higher Voc and smaller temperature coefﬁcient than homojunction c-Si solar cell, which leads to a higher energy yield than conventional poly-Si and c-Si PV modules in real applications, especially in hot climates. The optimization of the a-Si:H passivation and the doped layer in HIT solar cells is different from conventional a-Si:H solar cells because the a-Si:H passivation layer is very thin and pure amorphous phase is needed. A uniform deposition of the very thin a-Si:H layer on a large area is the ﬁrst challenge for HIT solar cell technology. Second, because the a-Si:H is very thin, the deposition time is very short; the initial ignition of the plasma in a PECVD system affects the passivation property and hence cell performance remarkably. It needs to control and reach steady plasma in a very short time. Third, any epitaxial growth reduces the effectiveness of the a-Si:H passivation. Because the a-Si:H passivation layer is directly deposited on a clean c-Si wafer surface, to make a clean sharp a-Si:H/c-Si interface without any epitaxial layer is another challenge. The optimization of HIT solar cell is another complicated process and different from a-Si:H thin ﬁlm solar cell optimization, and it is out of the scope of this chapter, therefore, we leave it for other chapters. Conclusion The research of a-Si:H material and application has lasted over 40 years and signiﬁcant progresses have been made by the international community. Because of the complexity of the material structure, a-Si:H material provides one of the best platforms for fundamental studies, such as the microscopic material structures, electronic structure and defect states, the carrier transport, and metastability. Although many phenomena have been understood after the extensive studies, many others still need to be further investigated. The most important contribution is the invention of PECVD deposition by LeComber and Spear to incorporate H in the materials, which signiﬁcantly reduces the dangling bond defect density and makes the doping possible. The fundamental studies by Anderson and Mott built the foundation of electric structure and carrier transport in the disorder semiconduc- tor materials. A remarkable amount of material characterization works have been done and well documented in the literatures. Great applications of a-Si:H have been found in PV solar energy and large area display, which have been the driving force for the study of a-Si:H science and technology. 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 687 The structural properties of a-Si:H and its alloys have been characterized by XRD, Raman, TEM, NMR, and FTIR, which reveal the details in the material structures such as the degree of ordering, inclusion of medium orders, and the transition from amorphous to microcrystalline phases. The commonly agreed assess- ment on a-Si:H structure is that it is a disorder material without long range periodic order, but with the short range order such that Si atoms are still in the tetrahedral diamond structure with sp3 covalence bonds. Some high-quality materials include certain amount of highly ordered regions such as inter-medium range orders and isolated crystal grains. a-Si:H materials contain 1015% of H atoms that terminate a signiﬁcant amount of Si dangling bonds and form isolated Si-H bonds in high- quality materials and Si-H2, Si-H3, and (Si-H)n chain-like structures in poor mate- rials with microvoids. The electronic structure and defect characterizations have been measured by transmission/reﬂection, PDS, CPM, DLTS, ESR, and PL. In high-quality a-Si:H, the bandgap is about 1.701.85 eV, depending on the H content. Neutral Si dangling bonds are the major defects with a density in the order of 1016 cm3. Weak Si-Si and Si-H bonds form the localized band-tail states, which has an exponential distribution from the conduction band edge and valence band edge towards to the middle of the bandgap with the band-tail characteristic energy of 25 meV and 50 meV for the conduction and valence band tails, respectively. However, what causes the big difference between the conduction band tails and valence band tails is still not very clear, at least for the authors. The transport properties are measured by dark and photoconductivity, time-of- ﬂight transient photocurrent, and other experiments. For good a-Si:H, the dark conductivity is around 1010 (Ω.cm)1, photoconductivity under an AM1.5 illumi- nation is 105 (Ω.cm)1, and activation energy is 0.700.85 eV. The room temperature electron drift mobility is in the order of 1 cm2/Vs and hole mobility of 102 cm2/Vs. The low carrier mobility results partially from the multiple trapping in the tail states. The difference of conduction and valence band-tail widths is one of the origins for the difference of the electron and hole mobility values. The low carrier mobility has a great impact on a-Si:H solar cell design. One big issue with a-Si:H is the light-induced degradation ﬁrst observed by Staebler and Wronski, which is an intrinsic property of the materials. Light soaking reduces both dark and photoconductivity, and generates silicon dangling bond defects. The light-induced degradation can be annealed away at an elevated temper- ature. Reﬂected in a-Si:H solar cell, the energy conversion efﬁciency decreases with light soaking time and saturates after a few hundreds of hours. Although several mechanisms have been proposed, including the weak-bond breaking model, the charge transfer model, and the H collision model, no consensus has been made yet. In the technology side, several new deposition techniques have been invented for improving the material quality and the deposition rate. Although conventional RF PECVD is still the major deposition method in research and development as well as a-Si:H PV and display production, new deposition techniques have been developed to address different issues. For example, VHF PECVD has shown a great advantage in high rate high-quality a-Si:H deposition, especially for μc-Si:H deposition. 688 Y. Zhao et al. Microwave PECVD can deposit a-Si:H at a much higher rate but the high rate a-Si:H material quality needs to be improve further. Hot-wire CVD has no ion bombard- ment and has advantage for depositing stable a-Si:H with low H content. In the PVapplication, a-Si:H solar cells use p-i-n and n-i-p structure instead of the p-n junction used in c-Si solar cells. The new cell structure is designed to overcome the disadvantage of lower carrier mobility-lifetime product in a-Si:H than in c-Si by using the i-layer as the absorber layer and thin doped p and n layers to form a built-in potential to collect the photo-generated carriers. Because of the lower hole mobility than electron mobility, the illumination through the p layer is the critical principle for a-Si:H solar cell design. Also because of the low carrier mobility-lifetime product, a-Si:H solar cells have a much thin absorber layer around 200300 nm; for such thin solar cell, an effective light trapping is needed such as advanced Ag/ZnO back reﬂector and very textured TCO-coated glass. In order to use the solar spectrum effectively, high and low bandgap alloy materials have been developed, for example, a-SiC:H and a-SiO:H for wide bandgap, and a-SiGe:H for narrow bandgap. Using the variable bandgap alloyed a-Si:H materials, multijunction structures such as a-Si; H/a-SiGe:H double-junction and a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/a-SiGe:H triple-junction solar cells have been designed for a high efﬁciency with a low light-induced degradation. The highest initial and stable cell efﬁciencies have reached to 14.6% and 13.0%, respectively. With such multijunction solar cell structure, large volume ﬂexible thin ﬁlm solar laminate production line has been built, which produced unique products for various applications such as roof-top installation. With the signiﬁcant cost reduction of poly-Si and c-Si solar module in recent years, a-Si:H thin ﬁlm PV product has lost its advantage of low cost. But the lower efﬁciency than poly-Si and c-Si solar panels makes a-Si:H PV technology lose its competitiveness and market shares. Thin ﬁlm silicon PV business has been shrunk signiﬁcantly and many companies went to bankruptcy. However, a new technology of combining a-Si:H with c-Si to make high efﬁciency silicon heterojunction (SHJ or HIT) solar cells ﬁnds a-Si:H a new application and gives a-Si:H a new life in the PV ﬁeld. Acknowledgments The authors are grateful for the colleagues in the thin ﬁlm silicon PV com- munity. They have enjoyed very much the collaborations with several institutions and sharing ideas and results through the international conferences such as the MRS, ICANS, IEEE-PVSEC, and EU-PVSEC. BY acknowledges the hospitality of the Nankai University. References D. Adler, J. Phys. 42, C4C3 (1981) P.W. Anderson, Phys. Rev. 109, 1492 (1958) G. Bauer, C. Neder, M. Schubert, G. Schumm, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 149, 485 (1989) A.C.W. Biebericher, A.R. Burgers, C. Devilee, W.J. Soppe, Proc. of 19th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference (Paris, 2004), p. 1485 H.M. Branz, Solid State Commun. 105, 387 (1998) N.M. Branz, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 425 (2003) 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 689 D. Carlson, C. Wronski, Appl. Phys. Lett. 28, 671 (1976) D. Carson, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 327 (2003) J.S. Cashmore, M. Apolloni, A. Braga, et al., Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 144, 84 (2016) B. Chapman, Chapter 4, in Glow Discharge Process: Sputtering and Plasma Etching, (Wiley, New York/Chichester/Brisbane/Toronto/Singapore, 1980) J. Chevallier, H. Wieder, A. Onton, C. Guarnieri, Solid State Comm. 24, 867 (1977) G.D. Cody, Chapter 2, in Semiconductors and Semimetals, Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Part B, ed. by J. I. Pankove (Ed), vol. 21, (Academic Press, Orlando/San Diego/San Francisco/New York/London/Toronto/Montreal/Sydney/Tokyo/San Paul, 1984) D. Cohen, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 399 (2003) M.H. Cohen, H. Fritzsche, S.R. Ovshinsky, Phys. Rev. Lett. 22, 1065 (1969) H. Curtins, N. Wyrsch, A. Shah, Electron. Lett. 23, 228 (1987a) H. Curtins, N. Wyrsch, M. Favre, A.V. Shah, Plasma Chem. Plasma Process. 7, 267 (1987b) F. Demichelis, C.F. Pirri, E. Tresso, J. Appl. Phys. 72, 1327 (1992) X. Deng, E.A. Schiff, Chapter 12, in Handbook of Photovoltaics Engineering, ed. by A. Luque, S. Hegedus (Eds), (Wiley, Chichester, 2003) J. Doyle, R. Robertson, G.H. Lin, M.Z. He, A. Gallagher, J. Appl. Phys. 64, 3215 (1988) J. Fan, J. Kakalios, Phil. Mag B69, 595 (1994) J. Fortner, J.S. Lannin, Phys. Rev. B 39, 5527 (1989) H. Fritzsche, J. Kakalios, D. Dernstein, in Optical Effects in Amorphous Semiconductors, AIP Conf. Proc, ed. by P. C. Taylor, S. G. Bishop (Eds), vol. 120, (American Institute of Physics, New York, 1984), p. 229 Q. Gu, Q. Wang, E.A. Schiff, Y.-M. Li, C.T. Malone, J. Appl. Phys. 76, 2310 (1994) S. Guha, K.L. Narasimhan, S.M. Pietruszko, J. Appl. Phys. 52, 859 (1981) S. Guha, J. Yang, A. Pawlikiewicz, T. Glatfelter, R. Ross, S.R. Ovshinsky, Appl. Phys. Lett. 54, 2330 (1989) S. Guha, X. Xu, J. Yang, A. Banerjee, Appl. Phys. Lett. 66, 595 (1994) S. Guha, J. Yang, A. Banerjee, B. Yan, K. Lord, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 329 (2003) D. Han, K. Wang, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 181 (2003) D. Han, K. Wang, L. Yang, J. Appl. Phys. 80, 2475 (1996) P. Hari, P.C. Taylor, R.A. Street, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 336, 329 (1994) N. Hata, T. Kamei, H. Okamoto, A. Matsuda, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 467, 61 (1997) J.K. Holt, M. Swiatek, D.G. Goodwin, H.A. Atwater, Mater. Res. Symp. Proc. 715, 165 (2002) G. Hou, J. Fang, Q. Fan, C. Wei, J. Ni, X. Zhang, Y. Zhao, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 134, 395 (2015) K. Ishibashi, Thin Solid Films 395, 55 (2001) M. Izu, T. Ellison, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 613 (2003) W.B. Jackson, N.M. Amer, AIP Conf. Proc. 73, 263 (1981) H. Jia, J.K. Saha, H. Shirai, Jpn. J. App. Phys. 45, 666 (2006a) H. Jia, H. Shirai, M. Kondo, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 910, 309 (2006b) J.D. Joannopoulos, G. Lucovsky, The Physics of Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon I and II, Topics in Applied Physics, vol 56 (New York/Tokyo, 1984) S. Jones, R. Crucet, X. Deng, D.L. Williamson, M. Izu, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 609, A4.5 (2000) P.A. Khomyakov, W. Andreoni, N.D. Aﬁfy, A. Curioni, Phys. Rev. Lett. 107, 255502 (2011) J. Koh, Y. Lee, H. Fujiwara, C.R. Wronski, R.W. Collins, Appl. Phys. Lett. 73, 1526 (1998) S. Komuro, Y. Aoyagi, Y. Segawa, S. Namba, A. Masuyama, H. Okamoto, Y. Hamakawa, J. Appl. Phys. 55, 3866 (1984) M. Kondo, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 543 (2003) G. Kong, D. Zhang, G. Yue, X. Liao, Phys. Rev. Lett. 79, 4210 (1997) A. Langford, M. Fleet, B. Nelson, W. Lanford, N. Maley, Phys. Rev. B 45, 13367 (1992) 690 Y. Zhao et al. J.S. Lannint, Chapter 6, in Semiconductors and Semimetals, Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Part B, ed. by J. I. Pankove (Ed), vol. 21, (Academic Press, Orlando/San Diego/San Francisco/New York/London/Toronto/Montreal/Sydney/Tokyo/San Paul, 1984) X. Liao, W. Du, X. Yang, H. Povolny, X. Xiang, X. Deng, PVSC IEEE-31 Orlando, 37 January, 2005, p 1444 J. Löfﬂer, C. Devilee, M. Geusebroek, W.J. Soppe, H.-J. Mufﬂer, Proc. of 21st European Photo- voltaic Solar Energy Conference (Dresden, 2006), p. 1597 D. Lundszien, J. Folsch, F. Finger, H. Wagner, Proc. of 14th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference (Barcelona, June 1997), p.578 A.H. Mahan, Thin Solid Films 395, 12 (2001) A.H. Mahan, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 299 (2003) A.H. Mahan, A. Mason, B.P. Nelson, A.C. Gallagher, Mater. Res. Symp. Proc. 609, A6.6 (2000) Y. Mai, S. Klein, R. Carius, H. Steibig, X. Geng, F. Finger, Appl. Phys. Lett. 87, 073503 (2005) D.P. Masson, A. Ouhlal, A. Yelon, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 190, 151 (1995) K. Masuko, M. Shigematsu, T. Hashiguchi, D. Fujishima, IEEE J Photovolt. 4, 1433 (2014.) http:// panasonic.net/ecosolutions/solar/hit/ A. Matsuda, M. Matsumura, K. Nakagawa, T. Imura, H. Yamamoto, S. Yamazaki, H. Okushi, S. Iizima, and K. Tanaka, in Tetrahedrally Bonded Amorphous Semiconductor, R. A. Street, D. K. Biegelsen, and J. C. Knights (American Inst. Phys., New York 1981), 192 H. Matsumura, Thin Solid Films 395, 1 (2001) H. Matsumura, H. Tachibana, Appl. Phys. Lett. 47, 833 (1985) S.C. Moss, J.F. Graczyk, Phys. Rev. Lett. 23, 1167 (1969) N.F. Mott, Phil. Mag. 13, 989 (1966) N.F. Mott, Adv. Phys. 16, 49 (1967) N.F. Mott, E.A. Davis, In Electronic Process in Non-crystalline Materials, 2nd edn. (Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1979), p. 322 H. Okamoto, K. Tanaka, E. Maruyama, Amorphous Silicon (Wiley, Chichester, 1999) S.R. Ovshinsky, 18th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (IEEE, New York, 1985), p. 1365 W. Paul, in Amorphous Silicon and Related Materials, ed. by H. Fritzsche (Ed), (World Scientiﬁc Publishing Company, Singapore, 1988), p. 63 E.A. Schiff, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 567 (2003) E.A. Schiff, J. Phys. Condens. Matter 16, S5265 (2004) A. Shah, J. Dutta, N. Wyrsch, K. Prasad, H. Curtins, F. Finger, A. Howling, C. Hollesnstein, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 258, 15 (1992) A.V. Shah, J. Meier, E. Vallat-Sauvain, N. Wyrsch, U. Kroll, C. Droz, U. Graf, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 469 (2003) N.J. Shevchik, W. Paul, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 381, 810 (1972) K. Shimizu, T. Tabuchi, M. Iida, H. Okamoto, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 227, 267 (1998) H. Shirai, Y. Sakuma, H. Ueyama, Thin Solid Films 345, 7 (1999) W.E. Spear, P.G. LeComber, Solid State Commun. 17, 1193 (1975) W.E. Spear, P.G. LeComber, Philos. Mag. 33, 935 (1976) D.L. Staebler, C.R. Wronski, Appl. Phys. Lett. 31, 292 (1977) R.A. Street, Adv. Phys. 30, 593 (1981) R.A. Street, Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1991) M. Stutzmann, R.A. Street, Phys. Rev. Lett. 54, 1836 (1985) M. Stutzmann, W.B. Jackson, C.C. Tsai, Appl. Phys. Lett. 45, 1075 (1984) T. Su, P.C. Taylor, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 269 (2003) M. Taguchi, M. Tanaka, T. Matsuyama, et al. Proc. Fifth PVSEC (1990), pp. 689692 J. Tauc, Chapter 4, in Amorphous and Liquid Semiconductors, ed. by J. Tauc (Ed), (Plenum Press, London/New York, 1974) Y. Tawada, K. Tauge, M. Kondo, H. Okamoto, Y. Hamakawa, Appl. Phys. Lett. 53, 5273 (1982) 20 Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film 691 R.J. Temkin, W. Paul, G.A.N. Connell, Adv. Phys. 22, 581 (1973) F. Urbach, Phys. Rev. 92, 1342 (1953) S.D. Wolf, A. Descoeudres, Z.C. Holman, et al., Green 2, 7 (2012) B. Yan, J. Yang, S. Guha, A. Gallagher, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 557, 115 (1999) B. Yan, G. Yue, J. Yang, K. Lord, A. Banerjee, S. Guha, Proc. of 3rd World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion, (Osaka, 1118 May, 2003), p. 2773 B. Yan, G. Yue, J. Yang, and S. Guha, Proc. of 33rd IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (IEEE, New York, 2008), paper No. 257 B. Yan, G. Yue, L. Sivec, J. Yang, S. Guha, C. Jiang, Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 113512 (2011) J. Yang, R. Ross, R. Mohr, J.R. Fournier, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 70, 475 (1986) J. Yang, A. Banerjee, T. Glatfelter, K. Hoffman, X. Xu, S. Guha, Proc. of 1st World Conf. on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion Proc (IEEE, N. Y., 1994), p. 380 J. Yang, A. Banerjee, S. Guha, Appl. Phys. Lett. 70, 2975 (1997) J. Yang, A. Banerjee, K. Lord, S. Guha, Proc. of 2nd World Conference and Exhibition on Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conversion (610 July 1998, Vienna), p. 387 J. Yang, B. Yan, S. Guha, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 664, A11.3 (2001) J. Yang, A. Banerjee, S. Guha, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 597 (2003) G. Yue, G. Kong, D. Zhang, Z. Ma, S. Sheng, X. Liao, Phys. Rew. B57, 2387 (1998) G. Yue, B. Yan, J. Yang, S. Guha, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 989, 359 (2007) P.Z. Zanzucchi, Chapter 4, in Semiconductors and Semimetals, Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Part B, ed. by J. I. Pankove (Ed), vol. 21, (Academic Press, Orlando/San Diego/San Francisco/New York/London/Toronto, Montreal/Sydney/Tokyo/San Paul, 1984) S. Zhang, Y. Xu, Z. Hu, Y. Wang, X. Zeng, H. Diao, W. Wang, G. Kong, X. Liao, Proc. PVSC IEEE-29 New Orleans, 2124 May, 2002, p. 1182 Y. Zhao, D. Zhang, G. Kong, G. Pan, X. Liao, Phys. Rev. Lett. 74, 558 (1995) J. Zhao, A. Wang, M.A. Green, Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 7, 471 (1999) 692 Y. Zhao et al. Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 21 Ying Zhao, Xiaodan Zhang, Lisha Bai, and Baojie Yan Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 694 Basic Material Properties of μc-Si:H ............................................................ 695 Structure Properties of μc-Si:H .............................................................. 695 Electronic Properties of μc-Si:H ............................................................. 701 Optical Properties of μc-Si:H ................................................................ 704 Application of μc-Si:H in Solar Cells and Issues for Efﬁciency Improvement ................ 708 Crystalline Evolution and Hydrogen Dilution Proﬁle ...................................... 709 Impurity Issue and Controlling .............................................................. 714 Light-Induced Metastability in μc-Si:H Solar Cells ........................................ 719 Light Trapping in μc-Si:H Solar Cells ...................................................... 725 Microcrystalline Silicon Germanium Alloy μc-SiGe:H ..................................... 736 High Rate Deposition of μc-Si:H ............................................................ 737 μc-Si:H Thin Film Silicon Solar Cell Design and Optimization ............................... 740 Doped Layer ................................................................................. 740 Interface Layers .............................................................................. 744 High Efﬁciency μc-Si:H Single-Junction Solar Cell ........................................ 746 A-Si:H and μc-Si:H Based Multijunction Solar Cell and Modules ........................ 747 Summary ......................................................................................... 751 References ....................................................................................... 753 Abstract We review μc-Si:H materials properties, deposition techniques, and applica- tions in solar cells. The focus is on the issues that limit μc-Si:H solar cell performance. Because of unintentional impurity incorporation, μc-Si:H shows an N-type conductivity, especially in the early days, μc-Si:H was used only as the doped layers. Meier et al. used VHF-PECVD technique with reduced Y. Zhao  X. Zhang  L. Bai  B. Yan (*) Institute of Photoelectronic Thin Film Devices and Technology, Nankai University, Tianjin, P. R. China e-mail: zhaoygds@nankai.edu.cn; xdzhang@nankai.edu.cn; baojie.yan@yahoo.com  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_28 693 impurity levels and made ﬁrst μc-Si:H solar cell in 1994. Since then the research and development of μc-Si:H solar cells have attracted a great attention, and a signiﬁcant progress has been made for using μc-Si:H as the bottom cell in multijunction structures. Compared to a-Si:H, μc-Si:H structure is much com- plicated with nanometer sized grains, grain boundaries, amorphous tissues, and microvoids. The complexity in the structure leads to complicated material properties, such as electronic structure, optical absorption, carrier transport, and stability. The materials property affects the solar cell performance signif- icantly. The material structure changes with the ﬁlm thickness under a constant deposition condition, which inﬂuences the solar cell performance. For solar cell applications, it has been found that the best μc-Si:H material should be compact with a low defect density and a crystalline volume fraction around 50% in the whole absorber layer. In order to obtain a high photocurrent density, an effec- tive light trapping is achieved using textured substrates. However, a high textured substrate causes a degradation of material quality. A thick μc-Si:H up to 5 μm requires a high rate deposition. Here, we will discuss the techniques for resolving the μc-Si:H issues and the approaches for achieving the high quality materials and high efﬁciency μc-Si:H solar cells. Keywords μc-Si:H  nc-SiOx:H  Thin ﬁlm  PECVD  Impurity  Light trapping  p-i-n  n-i- p  Solar cell  Multi-junction Introduction Hydrogenated microcrystalline silicon (μc-Si:H) was invented in 1968. It was ﬁrst made with a remote hydrogen plasma transport method (Veptek and Marecek 1968). Later on, it was found that in plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) process, when high hydrogen dilution and high RF power were used, the deposited ﬁlms showed crystal-like structures in their electron scattering pattern and with high conductivity (Usui and Kikuchi 1979). The materials contain crystal grains with the sizes in the range of a few nm and a few tens nm embedded in hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H) tissues; therefore, the materials are also called hydroge- nated nanocrystalline silicon (nc-Si:H) in the literature. Although some researchers believe that the grains in nc-Si:H are smaller than in μc-Si:H, no clear distinguish between nc-Si:H and μc-Si:H has been made and they are mixed in the literature. Therefore, we used μc-Si:H only in this chapter for consistency. The deposition of μc-Si:H with PECVD uses the same gases as used for a-Si:H deposition with only some differences in the process parameters such as hydrogen dilution, excitation power, pressure, and temperature. Therefore, the μc-Si:H fabrication techniques are compatible with a-Si:H, which is important for solar panel production. The early stage μc-Si:H materials have very high conductivity with N-type carrier transport, which has been identiﬁed as the contribution of unintentional doping by oxygen and/or nitrogen. Therefore, μc-Si:H was mainly used as the N-type and 694 Y. Zhao et al. P-type doped layer in a-Si:H solar cells (Guha et al. 1986; Yang et al. 1997). An important breakthrough of using μc-Si:H as the absorber layer in solar cells was made by Meier et al. at the University of Neuchatel by using Very High Frequency (VHF) PECVD (Meier et al. 1994a, b). Later on they used a gas puriﬁer to reduce the impurity level and improved μc-Si:H material quality and solar cell performance (Meier et al. 1996). Since then, the study of μc-Si:H material property and the research and development of high efﬁciency μc-Si:H solar cells have got a great attention worldwide, and a signiﬁcant amount of results has been published in the literature. For reviews, readers may be referred Finger (2010), Guha et al. (2013), Kondo (2003), and Shah et al. (2003). With the great efforts from the thin ﬁlm silicon photovoltaic (PV) community, the efﬁciencies of multijunction thin ﬁlm silicon solar cells and modules with μc-Si:H as the bottom cell absorber layer have been improved steadily with the highest initial cell efﬁciency of 16.3% (Yan et al. 2011), stable cell efﬁciency 13.4% (Kim et al. 2013), and stable module efﬁciency of 12.3% (Cashmore et al. 2016). From the material structure point view, μc-Si:H is a mixture of crystallites embedded in amorphous tissues. The material structures are much more compli- cated than a-Si:H and crystal silicon (c-Si). Although a signiﬁcant amount of studies has been made in the last a few decades, many problems are still unresolved. Here we will not discuss the complicated physics problems with the materials. Instead, we will focus on a few major issues affecting μc-Si:H solar cell performance and the solutions of the problems. The ﬁrst phenomenon is the so-called crystalline evolution, in which the crystalline volume fraction increases with the ﬁlm thickness; second the impurity issue and the ambient degradation of μc-Si:H solar cells and light-induced degradations; third the optical property and the light trapping in μc-Si:H solar cells; and fourth, the microcrystalline silicon germanium alloy (μc-SiGex:H) for extension of absorption to longer wavelength and microcrystalline silicon oxide (μc-SiOx:H) for doped layers. We also address the issues in solar cell design and optimization such as the doped layer and interface layers and ﬁnally the high rate deposition of μc-Si:H for solar panel production. Before the discussion of those issues, a brief review the basic proper- ties of μc-Si:H materials is given. Basic Material Properties of mc-Si:H Structure Properties of mc-Si:H Since μc-Si:H is a mixture of crystalline grains and amorphous silicon tissues, the material structures can be characterized by various methods, including X-ray scattering (XRD) spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), atomic force micros- copy (AFM), and real time spectroscopic ellipsometry (RTSE). Below, we will discuss some basic observations with these characterizations methods. 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 695 XRD is one of the commonly used characterization methods for μc-Si:H materials (Ray et al. 2002; Sobajima et al. 2007). Figure 1 shows a typical XRD pattern of a μc-Si:H solar cell made with VHF-PECVD on ZnO/Ag-coated stain- less steel (SS) substrate, where the preferential crystalline orientation is the (220) at 2θ = 47.311 and two other peaks at 28.451 and 56.131 corresponding to the (111) and (311) crystalline orientations, respectively. In addition, a few unmarked peaks are from the ZnO/Ag/SS substrate. The crystallite size d and the internal stress η could be estimated by the Debye-Scherrer equation (Debye and Scherrer 1916), Δθ cos θ ¼ kλ d þ η sin θ, (1) where λ is the wavelength of the X-ray, θ the scattering angle, Δθ the full width at the half maximum (FWHM), and k a constant in the range of 0.8 and 1.39. The commonly used X-ray is the Kα radiation line of Cu with the wavelength of 0.15418 nm. One could plot Δθcos(θ) versus sin(θ) and obtain the internal stress from the slope and the crystallite size from the intersection. In most case, the internal stress is ignored with η = 0, and the crystalline size is estimated by the Scherrer equation. One should keep in mind that the Debye-Scherrer equation is assumed spherical grain structures. However, in real μc-Si:H materials, the crystallites are elongated perpendicularly to the growth surface, and therefore, the estimated grain size is normally smaller than the real average value. As observed in Fig. 1, the FWHM of the (220) peak is narrower than the other two peaks, which indicates that the grains with (220) preferential orientation are larger than the (111) and (311) orientated grains. For most of high quality μc-Si:H materials, the estimated grain sizes from the (220) peak are in the range of 2030 nm. Raman spectroscopy is another most commonly used method to analyze μc-Si:H materials (Ledinsky et al. 2006; Vallat-Sauvain et al. 2006a). Because μc-Si:H 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 XRD Intensity (a.u.) 2q (degree) Si-(111) Si-(311) Si-(220) Fig. 1 An XRD pattern of μc-Si:H solar cell deposited on Ag/ZnO back reﬂector coated SS substrates, where the three crystalline Si peaks are marked and the others unmarked are from the substrate 696 Y. Zhao et al. contains crystallites and a-Si:H tissues, roughly speaking its Raman spectrum is a combination of the spectra of a-Si:H and c-Si. The a-Si:H component has four vibration modes of TA, LA, TO, and LO vibrations as shown in Fig. 2a with the deconvolution for the measured spectrum with multiple components. Since the c-Si Raman spectrum has only the TO mode because of the conservation of momen- tum, the most information of the crystalline structure is in the TO mode, where it is a combination of the amorphous silicon TO mode and the crystalline silicon TO mode with some differences, where the crystalline TO peak broadens and shifts to the low energy side at around 510  520 cm1, the amorphous TO peak narrows and shifts to the high energy side at around 480490 cm1. In addition, an intermedium peak at around 500505 cm1 is observed and normally assigned to the vibration at grain boundaries and the crystallites with the size smaller than 3 nm. From the red shift and the bandwidth of the c-Si peak (Iqbal and Veprek 1982), the grain size could be estimated, but the accuracy is affected by the internal stress and can only be applied to small grains. Therefore, accurate estimations of grain sizes and distributions 0 20 40 60 80 100 100 200 300 400 500 600 ).u.a( ytis n et n I g nir ett a c S n a m a R Measured, nc-Si:H cell a-Si TA a-Si LA a-Si LO a-Si TO Intermedium c-Si TO Total Fit a b 0 20 40 60 80 100 350 400 450 500 550 Raman Scattering Intensity (a.u.) Wavenumber (cm1) Wavenumber (cm1) Measured-15270 a-Si TO gb c-Si Fit-total Fig. 2 Raman spectra of a μc-Si:H solar cell deposited on a ZnO/Ag back reﬂector coated SS, where (a) is the as measured spectrum with four a-Si:H modes, one c-Si TO mode, and one intermedium component, (b) the measured spectrum with baseline correction and the three component ﬁttings 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 697 cannot be obtained by Raman spectra, but can be obtained from cross-sectional TEM images. The deconvolution of Raman spectra with all of the possible vibration modes is complicated and with a high level of arbitrariness because of the multiple ﬁtting parameters in each component. The commonly used method for the Raman spectral analysis is taking a baseline correction to remove the contributions from the other modes except the TO mode. An example is given in Fig. 2b, where a linear baseline correction is taken in the range of 350 cm1 to 550 cm1. The baseline corrected spectrum is ﬁtted with three Gaussian curves assigned to the a-Si:H TO mode, the grain boundary TO mode, and c-Si TO mode. Using the three component ﬁtting, the most important structure information of crystalline volume fraction, fc, is estimated by f c ¼ Ic þ Ii Ic þ Ii þ mIa , (2) where Ic, Ii, and Ia are the integrals of TO modes of c-Si, grain boundary, and a-Si:H, respectively, and m is a correction factor for the Raman cross-sections of amorphous and crystalline phases and its value relates to the size of crystallites dc, m ¼ 0:1 þ exp  dc 250   : (3) However, the real m value is very controversial, and it also depends on the probe light wavelength. Some early published values are in the range from 0.1 to 0.9 (Brodsky et al. 1977; Bustarret et al. 1988; Tsu et al. 1982), but Vallat-Sauvain et al. (2006a) determined that m = 1.68 for the measurements with 633 nm red laser and 1.78 for 514 nm green laser. Because of the uncertain of the m value, the absolute crystalline volume fraction may not be able to be determined by Raman measure- ments, but a relative comparison between samples provides very useful information. In this sense, a simple treatment using m = 1 is widely used. Measured Raman spectra could be also different when using different excitation lasers because of the different absorption coefﬁcients for different wavelengths: a short wavelength probes the top layer of the sample due to a high absorption coefﬁcient, and a long wavelength gives the bulk information due to a nearly uniform absorption. Also the measurements with the illumination on the top surface and on the rear surface of μc-Si:H deposited on a glass substrate can obtain different results because of the crystalline evolution as will be discussed later. Another important factor in real measurement is to keep the light intensity low enough to avoid light- induced crystallization, which easily happens when micro-Raman is performed with a focused laser beam. Cross-sectional TEM is a direct observation method to measure the structures of μc-Si:H ﬁlms. Depending on the selection of the resolution, one can study the overall structure and ﬁne structures. Figure 3 presents two TEM images with different resolutions. The left one (Bailat et al. 2002) is taken with a low resolution to examine the structure cross the entire ﬁlm thickness, where several features are observed with 698 Y. Zhao et al. an a-Si:H incubation layer in the bottom smooth area, the formation of crystalline seeds as seen by the spike-like structures, and the growth of the crystalline volume fraction as approaching the top part of the sample. This phenomenon is called crystalline evolution and will be discussed in detail later part of this chapter. The right image (Vallat-Sauvain et al. 2006b) is a high-resolution TEM showing nano- meter sized nc-Si grain embedded in an a-Si:H tissue. By carefully examining high resolution TEM images, one could obtain the crystallite density, grain size distribu- tion, and compactness of the materials. AFM is another very useful microscopic analysis tool for μc-Si:H characterization, especially combining the surface morphology mode with conductive mode (Rezek et al. 2002; Yan et al. 2007). Because a-Si:H is normally smoother than μc-Si:H. The formation of large grains, especially the clusters formed with nanometer sized grains, generates higher surface textures than pure a-Si:H. In addition, μc-Si:H has much higher conductivity than a-Si:H; a surface current distribution measured with c-AMF reveals a lot of useful information for microcrystalline formation. Figure 4 shows a comparison of (a) the c-AFM images and (b) the regular AFM morphology images taken in the same corresponding areas on the surface of an a-Si: H (left one), a mixed-phase Si:H (middle one), and a μc-Si:H (right) samples (Yan et al. 2007). It is observed that the a-Si:H surface is relatively ﬂat with a much lower surface current as shown by the left images. The most interesting observation is from the mixed-phase sample, where the two areas as pointed by the arrows have high mountain-like humps on the morphology image, correspondingly the current is much higher in these areas than the rest of the areas (note the current axis unit is 1 nA). For the μc-Si:H ﬁlm with a high crystallinity, many mountain-like humps aggregate together and form very rough surface, corresponding, the c-AFM image shows very high current spikes all over the surface (note the current axis unit is 2 nA). These results give a clear picture of the transition from a-Si:H and μc-Si:H. Fig. 3 The left image is a low resolution cross-sectional TEM of a μc-Si:H ﬁlm on glass (Bailat et al. 2002), and the right one is a high resolution TEM image showing the nanometer sized c-Si grain embedded a-Si:H matrix (Vallat-Sauvain et al. 2006b) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 699 30 pA 0 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 µm 0.5 1.0 1.5 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 µm 0.5 1.0 1.5 0 100 nm (a) (b) 1 nA 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 µm 0.5 1.0 1.5 (a) 0 100 nm 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 µm 0.5 1.0 1.5 (b) 0 0 2 nA 0 0 0.5 1.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 (a) (b) 100 nm 0 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 µm 0.5 1.0 1.5 Fig. 4 Regular surface morphology AFM images (bottom) and corresponding c-AFM images (top) in the same areas for an a-Si:H (left), a mixed-phase (middle), and a μc-Si:H (right) samples (Yan et al. 2007) 700 Y. Zhao et al. Real-time spectroscopic ellipsometry (RTSE) is also widely used for a-Si:H and μc- Si:H characterization, especially the transition from a-Si:H to μc-Si:H. By analyzing measured real and imaginary parts of the dielectric functions of a thin ﬁlm versus photo- energy, the bulk thickness and surface roughness can be obtained. Reviews of RTSE and details of the analyses can be found in Ref. Collins et al. (2003) and Dahal et al. (2014). Figure 5 shows an example of measurement and analysis results, where the left plots are the measured real and image parts of the dielectric function spectra for the deposition with hydrogen dilution ratio R = 20 (H2/SiH4) at 200 C at two thickness of 20 nm and 195 nm, and the right plot gives the analysis results of the surface roughness as a function of bulk layer thickness for three deposition processes with hydrogen dilution ratios R of 0, 10, and 20. By systematic measurements and analyzing different deposition processes, the transition model from a-Si:H to μc- Si:H has been built (Collins et al. 2003), which gives a very useful guideline for μc- Si:H material and device optimizations. Electronic Properties of mc-Si:H Dark- and photo-conductivities are critical parameters for solar cell applications. The absorber layer needs to have a low dark conductivity, a high photo-conductivity, and hence a high photosensitivity. Because of the inclusion of crystalline phase, the dark- conductivity of μc-Si:H is higher than of a-Si:H and it increases with the increase of crystalline volume fraction. Figure 6 gives examples of dark- and photo- conductivities as a function of silane concentration (SiH4/(SiH4 + H2)) in the deposition process (Vettea et al. 2002). It shows that both the dark- and photo- 30 a b a b 20 20 10 0 120 80 40 0 R=20 R=20 R=10 R=0 a-Si:H Roughness layer thickness, ds (Å) Fits db=200 Å: a-Si:H db=1950 Å: μc-Si:H μc-Si:H (a+μc) μc c-Si subst. P=0.08 W/cm2 a  (a+μc) a  a 10 ε1 ε2 0 10 30 20 10 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 Photon energy (eV) Bulk layer thickness, db (Å) 4.5 5.0 10 100 1000 0 Fig. 5 Left panel: (a) Real ε1 and (b) imaginary ε2 parts of the dielectric functions at 200 C for the R = 20 Si:H ﬁlm at the bulk thickness of 20 nm and 195 nm, right panel: surface roughness layer versus the bulk layer thickness for three samples with different hydrogen dilution R (Collins et al. 2003) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 701 conductivity increase with the decrease of silane concentration. As will be discussed later, high hydrogen dilution (low silane concentration) promotes the formation of microcrystalline phase. Therefore, conductivity is related to the material structure. Figure 7 (a) plots the dark- and photo-conductivities and (b) the photosensitivity as a function of crystalline volume fraction from the Raman measurement (Vettea et al. 2002). It shows that both the dark- and photo-conductivities increase with the increase of crystallinity, but the photosensitivity decreases with the increase of crystallinity. The dark-conductivity increases from 1011 (Ωcm)1 of a-Si:H to 106 (Ωcm)1 of high crystallinity μc-Si:H by 5 orders of magnitude, while the increase of photo-conductivity is much slower than the dark-conductivity by only 102 104 106 108 1010 1012 Silane concentration (%) Silane concentration (%) 0 5 10 0 5 10 15 Ts 185C 230C 325C 410C 6K 200C thin 6K 200C CT 185C Conductivity (S/cm) 102 104 106 108 1010 1012 Conductivity (S/cm) a b Fig. 6 Dark-conductivity (ﬁlled symbols) and photo-conductivity (open symbols) of ﬁlms pre- pared at various silane concentrations. (a) Results for similar substrate temperatures of 200 C and 185 C in two different deposition systems, also including a series with a reduced thickness of 50100 nm (thin). (b) Substrate temperature dependent results. Measurement error is within marker size (Vettea et al. 2002) 104 106 108 Conductivity (S/cm) 1010 1012 100 101 102 103 104 (I) (III) (II) 6K 200C 6K 200C CT 185C CT 230C CT 320C CT 410C Photosensitivity 105 0 0.2 0.4 Raman intensity ratio Ic RS Raman intensity ratio Ic RS 0.8 0.6 0 0.2 0.4 0.8 0.6 a b Fig. 7 (a) Dark-conductivity (ﬁlled symbols) and photo-conductivity (open symbols) as a function of integrated Raman intensity ratio IC RS, (b) photosensitivity as a function of IC RS. Same symbols are used in both ﬁgures. For better readability, only exemplary error bars are included (Vettea et al. 2002) 702 Y. Zhao et al. one order of magnitude, which results in the decline of photosensitivity with the increase of crystallinity. The conductivity of μc-Si:H materials is anisotropy, which means that it is different between the directions of parallel and perpendicular to the ﬁlm surface with a much higher conductivity in the perpendicular than the parallel directions. This is caused by the unique material structure with crystalline columnar structures perpendicular to the substrate. Even with a smaller crystalline volume fraction than the percolation threshold, the crystalline columnar structure can form perpendicular transport paths for current ﬂow. Figure 8 shows a comparison of perpendicular conductivity (AC) and parallel conductivity (DC) as a function of inverse tempera- ture, indicating a much higher conductivity and lower activation energy in the perpendicular direction than in the parallel direction (Kocka et al. 2001, 2003). With a simple mind thinking, if μc-Si:H has columnar structured nanocrystalline clusters perpendicular to the substrate, the crystalline phase is easy to form transport path for current ﬂow, while the carrier transport in the parallel direction needs go over the amorphous tissues and the grain boundaries. The anisotropy conductivity of μc-Si:H has a signiﬁcant impact on solar cell design and fabrication where the carrier transport is in the perpendicular direction, while the commonly used conductivity measurement with two parallel electrodes deposited on the sample surface does not give the real transport properties in solar cells. In addition, the parallel conductivity might be dominated by the high conduc- tive layer on the top surface, while the perpendicular conductivity might be inﬂuenced by the low conductive a-Si:H incubation layer. Therefore, the optimiza- tion of μc-Si:H materials for solar cell application needs to carefully consider the perpendicular transport. The anisotropy conductivity of μc-Si:H has some advan- tages, especially in the doped layers. The high perpendicular conductivity with a low crystallinity allows enough conductances for the current ﬂow, but the low parallel 5 6 7 RT 8 9 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 AC (perpendicular) EA = 0.25 eV σo = 0.5 Ω1.cm1 EA = 0.16 eV σo = 0.04 Ω1.cm1 log σ [Ω1.cm1] DC (parallel) 1000/T [K1] Fig. 8 Arrhenius plot of parallel conductivity (DC) (parallel to the substrate) and perpendicular conductivity (AC) (perpendicular to the substrate) measured on the μc- Si:H sample with 2.2 mm thickness (Kocka et al. 2003) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 703 conductivity prevents the lateral collection to improve the open circuit voltage (Voc) and ﬁll factor (FF). For solar cell application, the most important transport parameter is the hole mobility-lifetime product, which limits the collection length of carriers and hence the maximum cell thickness allowing to have enough short circuit current density (Jsc) without signiﬁcant loss in FF. Time-of-ﬂight (TOF) measurements found that the hole drift mobility in a-Si:H is normally in the order of 0.01 cm2/Vs (Gu et al. 1994), while it increases by two orders of magnitude to the level of 1 cm2/Vs (Dylla et al. 2005). The high hole mobility allows to use much thicker absorber layer in μc-Si:H solar cells (35 μm) than in a-Si:H solar cells (0.20.3 μm). Optical Properties of mc-Si:H The advantage for using μc-Si:H as the intrinsic layer in solar cell is absorbing the long wavelength light for high Jsc; therefore, a high absorption coefﬁcient (α) at the long wavelength is an important signature of μc-Si:H. Figure 9 shows an example of the comparison of measured absorption coefﬁcients of μc-Si:H, intrinsic a-Si:H, and c-Si, from which a few observations are made (Shah et al. 2003). First, comparing to a-Si:H, μc-Si:H has a signiﬁcant high absorption coefﬁcient in the energy below the a-Si:H bandgap, proving the advantage of μc-Si:H for the long wavelength absorp- tion in solar cell application. Second, the absorption coefﬁcient spectrum of μc-Si:H has a similar shape as of c-Si but with much higher values. It has been conﬁrmed that the measured high absorption is caused by the scattering of the rough surface and the internal scattering by the grain boundaries in the ﬁlms. The scattering effects can be removed and the measured absorption coefﬁcients are reduced. Figure 10 shows a 104 103 102 10 1 0.1 0.8 1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 Energy [eV] 2 μc-Si:H c-Si Alpha [cm1] a-Si:H Fig. 9 Effective absorption coefﬁcient spectra of as measured μc-Si:H, c-Si, and intrinsic a-Si:H materials (Shah et al. 2003). 704 Y. Zhao et al. careful study of removing the scattering effect to obtain the true absorption coefﬁ- cient spectra in μc-Si:H. The measurements were made with the regular transmission (T) and reﬂection (R) spectra and constant photocurrent method (CPM) (Poruba et al. 2000), where (a) plots the apparent results with different electrode gaps that affects the scattering effect and the true absorption coefﬁcients by modeling the results to remove the scattering effect, and (b) is the results from a polished sample with different gaps showing the same results without the inﬂuence from the scatter- ing. Comparing the results in Fig. 10 (a), one can see that the scattering indeed affects the apparent absorption signiﬁcantly, especially the long wavelength region, where the low absorption coefﬁcients require a long path for the light to be absorbed. Although the scattering effect leads to a great challenge to obtain the true absorption coefﬁcients, from solar technology point of view, the enhanced absorption by scattering is an important feature for solar cell application because it allows using a much thinner absorber layer than c-Si solar cells. Third, the true absorption coefﬁcients of μc-Si:H in the energy higher than the bandgap of a-Si:H are much higher than in c-Si, which is due to the contribution of the a-Si:H phase; it is also higher than in c-Si in the energy lower than the c-Si bandgap, which results from the absorption in the tail states in μc-Si:H. The absorption coefﬁcient of μc-Si:H does not go down to zero in the energy below the bandgap of c-Si:H at 1.12 eV. This does not 104 103 102 101 100 104 103 102 101 100 101 101 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.2 photon energy (eV) 8 x 2 mm apparent α(E) true α(E) CPM results for gap: POLISHED α(E) from T/R TEXTURED (σ = 21 nm) α app, α (cm1) α app, α (cm1) c-Si c-Si Results of T/R true α(E) calculated from CPM 2.2 x 0.2 mm 2.2 x 0.08 mm 2.2 x 0.03 mm 8 x 2 mm CPM results for gap: 2.2 x 0.08 mm 2.2 x 0.03 mm a b Fig. 10 Apparent optical absorption coefﬁcients of a μc-Si:H sample measured by CPM with different interelectrode spacing (gap) and calculated from T/R measurements: (a) in the as-grown state (textured sample) and (b) after a chemomechanical polishing. The evaluated spectral dependence of the true absorption coefﬁcient α(E) is shown as the main result by full diamonds; α(E) of crystalline silicon is shown for comparison. The value of the RMS surface roughness of σ = 21 nm of the as-grown sample was evaluated from the T/R data (Poruba et al. 2000) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 705 mean μc-Si:H has a narrower bandgap than c-Si, instead indicates a band-tail absorption as the case of a-Si:H. Logically thinking, the absorption spectrum of μc-Si:H should depend on the crystalline volume fraction with the higher the crystalline volume fraction, the higher the long wavelength absorption is. This trend has been observed experimentally as shown in Fig. 10 (Kroll et al. 1998), where the absorption coefﬁcient spectra of μc-Si: H ﬁlms made with different silane concentrations for achieving different crystalline volume fractions. It demonstrates that the absorption coefﬁcient at photon energy below the a-Si:H bandgap of 1.8 eV increases signiﬁcantly but decreases slightly at above 1.8 eV. The increases of the low energy absorption coefﬁcients with the reduction of silane concentration are due to the increases of the absorption in the crystalline phase and the increased scattering effect; the slight reductions of absorption in the high energy region result from the reduced a-Si:H component (Fig. 11). There was a confusion concept about the bandgap of μc-Si:H. Because it has normally observed that the Voc of μc-Si:H solar cells increases with the decrease of crystallinity (Droz et al. 2004). Logically one would expect the bandgap of μc-Si:H increases with the decrease of the crystallinity. But it might not be true. First, the deﬁnition of bandgap is the energy between the conduction band edge Ec and the valence band edge Ev. It should be no energy states between Ec and Ev in the ideal case. Since μc-Si:H is a mixture of amorphous tissues and c-Si grains, the deﬁnition of the bandgap is sometime confusion and ill-deﬁned. First, the areas of c-Si phase should have the same bandgap as c-Si bulk materials without considering the quantum conﬁnement, while the areas of amorphous phase should have the similar optical properties as a-Si:H. For the μc-Si:H materials used in solar cells, the crystalline phase must form a transport path and the carrier transport mainly takes place in the c-Si phase; therefore, the transport or mobility bandgap of the μc-Si:H 0.8 100 101 102 103 104 1.2 c-Si 1.6 100 50 10 7.5 5 2.5 1.25 % 2 Photon Energy [eV] Absorption [cm1] Fig. 11 Optical absorption of the a-Si:H and μc-Si:H ﬁlms prepared at different silane concentrations as indicated in the ﬁgure. For comparison, the absorption of monocrystalline silicon is added (Kroll et al. 1998). 706 Y. Zhao et al. should be the same as c-Si of 1.12 eV. By analyzing the dark current-voltage characteristics of μc-Si:H solar cells, Yan et al. (2013) proved that the mobility bandgap of μc-Si:H is indeed the same as c-Si. Therefore, when considering the carrier transport in μc-Si:H, one should only consider the bandgap of c-Si phase with the same value of 1.12 eV. The optical bandgap does not have a uniﬁed deﬁnition for the mixed-phase materials. For a-Si:H, the optical bandgap is nor- mally deﬁned by the linear Tauc plot of (hνα)1/2 versus hν; Yan et al. (2013) also showed that the Tauc plot of (hνα)1/2 versus hν does not have a good linear relation as given in Fig. 12; instead the (hνα)1/5 versus hν yields a linear relation and gives an intersection at around 1.21.3 eV. However, it is difﬁcult to ﬁnd out an accept- able physics to explain such relation. Therefore, the optical bandgap is difﬁcult to be obtained by the Tauc plot. The curvature in the Tauc plot can be explained with effective medium theory by the composition of the absorption coefﬁcient spectra of a-Si:H and c-Si with a given crystalline volume fraction as shown in Fig. 13 (Yan et al. 2013). It is obvious that combing the two absorption spectra with different bandgaps does not obtain a straight line in the Tauc plot. It is also often to use the energy at which the absorption coefﬁcient is 104 cm1 as the deﬁnition of optical bandgap (E04), but the E04 is sometimes misleading as shown in Fig. 13, where the E04 of c-Si is larger than the E04 of μc-Si:H and the E04 of μc-Si:H is larger than the E04 of a-Si:H. Therefore, the E04 in μc-Si:H may not give the information of the optical bandgap. To summarize the optical properties of μc-Si:H, we may conclude that the absorption coefﬁcients of μc-Si:H can be composited by combining the spectra of c-Si and a-Si:H with a given crystalline fraction. Therefore, the absorption coefﬁ- cient in the high energy region decreases and in the low energy region increases with the increase of crystalline volume fraction. The mobility bandgap in μc-Si:H is the same as in c-Si when carrier transport takes place in the crystalline phase, but the optical bandgap does not have a clear deﬁnition yet. The measured absorption coefﬁcients of μc-Si:H could be much larger than the real ones because of the 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 (αhν)1/2 (eV/cm)1/2 hν (eV) nc-Si:H: 1134 nm nc-Si:H: 590 nm nc-Si:H: 315 nm y = 7.3774x - 8.5332 R² = 0.9993 y = 7.1419x - 8.0951 R² = 0.9962 y = 7.3439x - 8.2337 R² = 0.9988 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 (αhν)1/5 (eV/cm)1/5 hν (eV) nc-Si:H: 1134 nm nc-Si:H 590 nm nc-Si:H: 315 nm Fig. 12 (left): the Tauc plot of (hνα)1/2 versus hν, and (left): (hνα)1/5 versus hν of three μc-Si:H ﬁlms with different thicknesses made under the same condition 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 707 scattering by the rough surface or the internal grain boundaries, which is an important feature for μc-Si:H allowing to use much thinner absorber layer in solar cells. Application of mc-Si:H in Solar Cells and Issues for Efficiency Improvement The fabrication of high quality μc-Si:H materials and efﬁcient solar cells has been facing numerous challenges. First the material structure is not uniform along the growth direction when a constant deposition condition is used; the materials show an initial a-Si:H incuba- tion layer and the crystallinity increases with the ﬁlm thickness, which is called crystalline evolution and has a signiﬁcant impact on solar cell optimization. Second, μc-Si:H ﬁlms made with no intentional doping normally contain a high concentration of impurity that results in 1017 cm3 donors, which leads to the Fermi level close to the conduction band edge and therefore with a low activation energy, a high dark conductivity, and a low photo- response. This high conductive μc-Si:H cannot be used as the absorber layer in solar cells. The third challenge is to make compactly structured μc-Si:H materials to avoid the postdeposition impurity diffusion. It has been often found that a high density of microvoids and microcracks in μc-Si:H materials made under unoptimized conditions, especially at high deposition rates. The microvoids and microcracks are mainly at the grain boundaries in the samples with a high crystalline volume fraction, where the grain boundaries between large grains are difﬁcult to be passivated. The fourth challenge is the required thickness of μc-Si:H intrinsic layer in solar cells. For an a-Si:H solar cell, the intrinsic layer is normally in the range of 200300 nm, but it requires approximately ten times more thicker in a μc-Si:H solar cell. Although the long wavelength absorption in μc-Si:H is higher than in a-Si:H, it is still an indirect bandgap in the crystalline phase and the absorption coefﬁcient is not high enough to absorb sufﬁcient long wavelength light with a thin μc-Si:H layer. Normally the intrinsic μc-Si:H layer needs to be 23 μm thick and even up to 5 μm. Although it is 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 log(α/cm-1) hν (eV) a-Si:H c-Si nc-Si:H 30%a-Si:H+70%c-Si E04 Fig. 13 Absorption coefﬁcient spectra of μc-Si:H, c-Si, a-Si:H, and a combination of 30% of a-Si:H and 70% of c-Si (Yan et al. 2013) 708 Y. Zhao et al. signiﬁcantly thinner than a wafer used in c-Si solar cell, it is much thicker than the intrinsic layer in a-Si:H solar cells. Consequently, the deposition rate of μc-Si:H should be approximately 10 times higher than the deposition rate of a-Si:H for reaching the same production rate of thin ﬁlm solar modules as using a-Si:H and a-SiGe intrinsic layers. For this consideration, the target deposition rate should be 23 nm/s for μc-Si:H in thin ﬁlm silicon solar panel production. Below we will address these issues and approaches to resolve these issues for high efﬁciency μc-Si:H solar cells. Crystalline Evolution and Hydrogen Dilution Profile As mentioned above, the key technique for depositing μc-Si:H is the high hydrogen dilution. Using a PECVD system, on can make a-Si:H and μc-Si:H with different deposition conditions such as high hydrogen dilution, high excitation power, and high pressure. The most effective parameter controlling the amorphous/microcrys- talline transition is the hydrogen dilution ratio deﬁned as R = H2/SiH4 or the silane concentration deﬁned as SC = SiH4/(H2 + SiH4). Figure 14 shows an example of XRD patterns of Si:H ﬁlms deposited with different SC (Kroll et al. 1998). It notes Fig. 14 XRD spectra of Si:H ﬁlms made with different silane concentrations (Kroll et al. 1998) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 709 that the ﬁlm made with 8.6% of silane shows no any indication of c-Si peaks, 7.5% with an indication of c-Si formation with the (220) preferential orientation peak as observed in the enhanced scale, and the c-Si peaks increase with the decrease of silane concentration. The ﬁlms made with 5% and 2.5% show a strong (220) preferential orientation, while the (111) peak becomes stronger than the others in the sample with 1.25% silane concentration. This result clearly proves that the hydrogen dilution is an effective parameter to control the crystallinity in μc-Si:H materials. Another interesting phenomenon in μc-Si:H deposition is the so-called crystalline evolution as shown in Fig. 15a, where the crystalline volume fraction increases with the ﬁlm thickness increase when the deposition is made under a constant condition. The crystalline volume fraction is measured by the Raman spectra as shown in Fig. 15b with three component ﬁttings (Yan et al. 2004a) as discussed previously with m = 1. The Raman measurements were made with Ar ion laser with the wavelength of 514 nm, which only probes the top layer of the samples. Collins et al. have done a systematic study about the transition from a-Si:H to μc- Si:H and the crystalline evolution with the comparison of cross-sectional TEM and RTSE (Collins et al. 2003; Dahal et al. 2014). Figure 16 shows an example of cross- sectional TEM, where one could observe (1) a clear cone structured crystalline phase formed with a cone angle θ and (2) a crystallite seed density Nd after an a-Si:H incubation layer deposition (Collins et al. 2003). The cone growth with the ﬁlm thickness agrees well with the increase of crystallinity with ﬁlm thickness. On the same sample, RTES was measured and analyzed to obtain the crystallinity with the result shown in Fig. 17 (Collins et al. 2003), in which the crystallinity increases starting from around 30 nm of the a-Si:H incubation layer. Based on this analysis, a cone growth structure model is built as shown in Fig. 18 (Collins et al. 2003). It includes three zones: (I) the a-Si:H incubation layer, (II) the cone growth zone, and (III) the zone after the cone coalescence. In zone I, the crystalline volume 60 65 70 75 80 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 Thickness (mm) Average c-Si volume fraction (%) 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 400 450 500 550 600 Raman shift (cm-1) Intensity (a.u.) measurement Fit-total Fit-amorphous Fit-grain boundary Fit-crystalline Fig. 15 (right): A Raman spectrum of μc-Si:H ﬁlm with three component ﬁttings after a linear baseline correction; (left) crystalline volume fraction as a function of ﬁlm thickness (Yan et al. 2004a) 710 Y. Zhao et al. fraction is undetectable and the surface roughness slightly decreases due to the coalescence of the amorphous islands; in zone II, the crystalline volume fraction and the surface roughness both increase with the ﬁlm thickness due to the growth of the cones; and ﬁnally in zone III, the crystalline volume fraction reaches 100% and the surface roughness starts to decrease due to the coalescence of the crystalline cones. It needs to point out that the estimated crystalline volume fractions by RTSE are normally larger than the estimations from Raman spectra. Based on this RTES analysis, a phase diagram was built up as shown in Fig. 19 (Collins et al. 2003), where the horizontal axis is hydrogen dilution R, and vertical axis the bulk ﬁlm thickness. Three transitions between four zones are identiﬁed as the amorphous unstable surface zone to amorphous stable surface zone transition (a!a), amorphous stable surface zone to mixed-phase zone transition (a!a + μc), and mixed-phase zone to microcrystalline phase zone (a + μc !μc). Details of the analyses and the meaning of each zone and transition are referred to Ref. Collins et al. (2003). This phase diagram is a very useful tool for guiding the design and optimization of thin ﬁlm solar cells. It has been found that the best a-Si:H solar cells are made at a high hydrogen dilution close to the transition from amorphous to Fig. 16 A cross-sectional TEM image of a μc-Si:H ﬁlm made with hydrogen dilution R = 20. A clear-cone structured crystalline phase formed with a cone angle θ and crystallite seed density Nd (Collins et al. 2003) 100 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1000 VI analysis Cone model Bulk layer thickness, db (Å) μc-Si:H vol. fraction Fig. 17 Crystalline volume fraction estimated from the RTSE analysis as a function of ﬁlm thickness. The crystalline formation starts from around 30 nm (Collins et al. 2003) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 711 microcrystalline phases and keep it out of the mixed-phase zone; therefore, to make high efﬁciency a-Si:H solar cells, one should design a process along the blue arrow; similarly, for high efﬁcient μc-Si:H solar cells, they are made with a condition close to the transition from microcrystalline to amorphous phases but still in the 100 a b 80 60 40 ds (Å) db (Å) a-Si:H θ μc μc db,t db,c ds,t Nd ds,c 20 0 100 1000 R=20 P=0.08 W/cm2 c-Si subst. Fig. 18 (a) Surface roughness layer thickness (ds) versus bulk layer thickness (db) for the R = 20 Si:H ﬁlm; (b) schematic of the cone growth model used to estimate the crystallite nuclei density and cone angle based on the surface roughness evolution (Collins et al. 2003) 104 103 102 101 0 amorphous, stable surface single- phase μc mixed- phase (a+µc) amorphous, unstable surface a a a (a+μc) (a+μc) μc 10 20 30 40 H2-dilution ratio, R Bulk layer thickness, db (Å) Fig. 19 A phase diagram of Si:H ﬁlm deposition under a condition given in Collins et al. (2003) 712 Y. Zhao et al. microcrystalline phase; therefore, one should design a process along the red arrow in the ﬁgure for high efﬁciency μc-Si:H solar cells. The crystalline evolution has several negative impacts on the solar cell perfor- mance. First, the a-Si:H incubation layer has a high resistivity than μc-Si:H, in which photocarriers have to pass through with a low mobility that results in additional series resistance and reduces the FF. Second the mixed phase region normally has a high defect density that affects the cell performance remarkably, and ﬁnally the top layer with very high crystallinity easily forms a high density of microvoids and cracks, which results in the postdeposition impurity diffusion. Therefore, for high efﬁciency solar cells, one has to avoid the crystalline evolution. To resolve the crystalline evolution issue, a hydrogen dilution proﬁle technique was proposed by Yan et al. (2004a, b) and was proven to be an effective method to improve the performance of μc-Si:H solar cells. The basic concept of hydrogen dilution proﬁle is consistent with the red arrow as in Fig. 19. A very high hydrogen dilution ratio at the starting of the deposition removes the a-Si:H incubation layer and follows with a continual decrease of hydrogen dilution with deposition time to maintain the same crystallinity as the ﬁlm growth. Figure 20 shows an cross- sectional TEM image of a μc-Si:H ﬁlm deposited with a hydrogen dilution proﬁle, where the bottom thin layer is an a-Si:H n-layer. The result shows no a-Si:H incubation layer and a uniform crystalline structure. It demonstrates the effectiveness of the hydrogen dilution proﬁle on the controlling of crystalline evolution. This technique is also effective on the solar cell efﬁciency improvement. Table 1 lists the current density versus voltage (J-V) characteristics of the μc-Si:H solar cells made with various hydrogen dilution proﬁles (Yan et al. 2004a, b). Three baseline cells show a Jsc around 2223 mA/cm2. But the two cells with 20% longer intrinsic layer Fig. 20 A cross-sectional TEM image of a μc-Si:H ﬁlm deposited with a hydrogen dilution proﬁle, showing an uniform crystalline structure 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 713 deposition time show a lower Jsc, mainly due to the reduction in the long wavelength response. The six hydrogen dilution proﬁles from 1 to 6 are designed with the increase of the grading slope of the hydrogen dilution ratio but with the same average hydrogen dilution, which means that proﬁle-6 has highest hydrogen dilution ratio at the beginning of the deposition but the lowest at the end of the deposition. It clearly demonstrates that the hydrogen dilution proﬁling has improved the cell performance signiﬁcantly, especially the long wavelength response. The cells with the constant hydrogen dilution have an average initial active-area efﬁciency of 6.6%. By using the hydrogen dilution proﬁling, an efﬁciency of 8.37% was obtained. The hydrogen dilution proﬁle technique has been widely used in the community for improving μc- Si:H solar cell performance. Because the μc-Si:H deposition is a multivariable system and the material structure and quality depend on all of the parameters, the crystalline evolution could be also controlled by other parameters such as the excitation power and temperature. Han et al. (2010) using a RF power proﬁle method achieved the same effect as hydrogen dilution proﬁle. We need to point out that the initial grow of the ﬁlm is very important such that one has to eliminate the a-Si:H incubation layer. Several methods have been proposed for making incubation free μc-Si:H layers such as a very high hydrogen diluted seed layer (Vetterl et al. 2003), a prehydrogen plasma treatment (Zhang et al. 2011), and using reactive etching gases such as F or Cl containing gases (Kasouit et al. 2002; Chung et al. 2011). Impurity Issue and Controlling As pointed previously, most of μc-Si:H ﬁlms made in the early stage showed a high conductivity with N-type carrier transport, and it was found that the high conductivity is caused by O impurity because O becomes weak donors in μc-Si:H. The tolerance for O in a-Si:H is in the order of 12  1019 cm3, but it is only 5  1018 cm3 in μc-Si:H (Merdzhanova et al. 2012; Woerdenweber et al. 2012). The incorporation of O in Table 1 Performance parameters of mc-Si:H solar cells made with various hydrogen dilutions Sample # Jsc (mA/cm2) Voc (V) FF Eff (%) Comments AM1.5 Blue Red 14,554 22.58 0.495 0.603 0.652 0.615 6.74 Flat baseline 14,568 22.15 0.488 0.599 0.648 0.599 6.48 14,596 22.05 0.482 0.622 0.656 0.605 6.61 14,559 21.48 0.482 0.632 0.678 0.637 6.54 20% thicker than baseline 14,562 21.57 0.484 0.652 0.692 0.651 6.81 14,578 23.22 0.482 0.594 0.646 0.631 6.63 Proﬁling 1 14,580 22.58 0.484 0.644 0.688 0.662 7.04 Proﬁling 2 14,612 24.41 0.485 0.616 0.659 0.647 7.29 Proﬁling 3 14,619 24.63 0.492 0.645 0.683 0.641 7.81 Proﬁling 4 14,642 23.42 0.502 0.681 0.706 0.700 8.01 Proﬁling 5 14,660 25.15 0.502 0.663 0.679 0.693 8.37 Proﬁling 6 714 Y. Zhao et al. μc-Si:H comes from the residual impurities in the deposition system, gases, and postdeposition diffusion from the ambient. In order to reduce the unintentional doping, using a clean system with high purity gases, especially H2, is critical for the deposition of high quality μc-Si:H ﬁlms. In addition, optimized deposition conditions are essen- tial for highly compacted material structure to avoid postdeposition impurity diffusion. Figure 21 shows a comparison of two μc-Si:H silicon solar cells with different impurity levels achieved with and without a gas puriﬁer. It clearly demonstrates that the gas puriﬁer signiﬁcantly improved the cell performance. Secondary ion mass spectroscopy (SIMS) analysis showed that the gas puriﬁer can reduce the O level from above 1019 cm3 down to 5  1018 cm3 (Meier et al. 1996). The impurities in μc-Si:H are not only incorporated in during the deposition, but also diffuse into the materials after the deposition and air exposure if the materials are not compact enough. Small angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) measurements showed that unoptimized μc-Si:H materials could have a few percent of microvoids in volume (Williamson 2003), which allow impurities diffuse into the materials and degrade the solar cell performance. Figure 22 (upper) shows the dark-conductivity of an individual μc-Si:H layer as a function of time keeping the sample in the ambient without light soaking, which clearly shows an increase of the dark-conductivity and associates with the reduction of activation energy from 0.52 eV to 0.17 eV; while as shown in lower panel of Fig. 22, the μc-Si:H p-i-n solar efﬁciency did not change at all during the air exposure, which was explained with the blocking the impurity diffusion by the back ZnO/metal contact in the solar cell (Meier et al. 1998). The n-i-p μc-Si:H solar cells are not as lucky as the p-i-n solar cells because the n-i-p solar cells are normally deposited on nontransparent substrates and the top contact on the p-layer is an Indium-Tin-Oxide (ITO) layer with a thickness of 75 nm for the antireﬂection effect, which is not effective to block the impurity diffusion. Figure 23 shows the J-V characteristics and external quantum efﬁciency (EQE) curves of an early unoptimized μc-Si:H n-i-p solar cell in the as-deposited state and after 30 days keeping in the ambient (Yan et al. 2002). One can clearly see that the solar cell performance was degraded just keeping the cell in the ambient. A controlled experiment showed that the 400 without purifier with purifier 600 800 1000 Wavelength [nm] Spectral response [a.u.] Fig. 21 EQE comparison of μc-Si:H solar cells made with and without a gas puriﬁer in the deposition system (Torres et al. 1996) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 715 ambient degradation results mainly from the moisture in the air because keeping the cells in N2 and dry cold air prevented the ambient degradation, but the cell in hot and humid air accelerated the degradation (Yan et al. 2002). The ambient degradation mainly happened in the early stage of μc-Si:H solar cell study. After the 10-4 10-5 10-6 10-7 8 midgap mc-Si:H film σdark (S/cm) η (%) mc-Si:H pin cell 6 4 2 00 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 time after fabrication (days) Fig. 22 Comparison of an intrinsic μc-Si:H ﬁlm and the corresponding p-i-n solar cell as the function of air exposure after deposition. The ﬁlm was characterized by the dark conductivity measurement and the cell by J-V measurements under AM 1.5. The dashed lines are drawn to guide the eye (Meier et al. 1998) 5 1 0.8 0.6 Q 0.4 0.2 0 300 500 700 900 Wavelength (nm) Initial 30 days Initial 30 days 0 -5 -10 -15 -20 -0.1 0.1 0.3 0.5 Voltage (V) J (mA/cm2) -25 a b Fig. 23 J-V characteristics and quantum efﬁciency (Q) of a μc-Si:H solar cell in the initial state and after 30 days exposure in the ambient without light soaking (Yan et al. 2002) 716 Y. Zhao et al. optimization of the deposition process, high quality μc-Si:H materials and n-i-p solar cells with compact structures and low density of microvoids do not surfer the ambient degradation problem. The optimization of the deposition process will be addressed later. For the high quality μc-Si:H materials and high efﬁciency μc-Si:H solar cells, the impurity is still an issue. Yue et al. (2012a, b) have carefully studied the effect of impurity on high efﬁciency μc-Si:H solar cells. Because of the high sensitivity of μc- Si:H to impurity, most high efﬁciency solar cells are deposited in multichamber systems to reduce the cross-contaminations. Even in multichamber systems, the cross-contaminations cannot be absolutely avoided. Especially for B contamination, the level of 1016 cm3 of B can cause a noticeable effect on μc-Si:H solar cell performance. An example is given in Fig. 24, where the quantum efﬁciencies (QE) of three μc-Si:H solar cells with the same back ground B contamination at 2  1016 cm3, but with different O concentrations obtained by different deposition chamber conditionings as shown in Fig. 25. The QE measurements were made under 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 300 500 700 900 1100 QE Wavelength (nm) (a) Sample 21821 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 300 500 700 900 1100 QE Wavelength (nm) (b) Sample 21886 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 300 500 700 900 1100 QE Wavelength (nm) (c) Sample 21916 Fig. 24 Quantum efﬁciency (QE) measured under -5 V bias (red dash lines) and the short circuit condition (thin solid black lines) for three samples with different QE losses, where (a) Sample 21,821 has a long wavelength QE loss; (b) Sample 21,886 has a minimal QE loss; and (c) Sample 21,916 has a short wavelength QE loss (Yue et al. 2012b) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 717 zero bias (short circuit) and 5 V bias conditions. The photocurrent difference obtained from the two curves is called QE loss, which reﬂects the recombination loss. Because a revise bias enhances the electric ﬁeld in the intrinsic layer and reduces the recombination rate, the larger the difference between the reverse biased QE and the zero biased QE, the more the recombination loss is. In addition, the recombination occurring in different regions in the intrinsic layer reﬂects in the different wavelength ranges in the QE spectrum. A short wavelength light is mainly absorbed in the shallow region near the p/i interface; thus, the short wavelength QE loss reﬂects the recombination occurs mainly in the region near the p/i interface, while a long wavelength light is absorbed uniformly in the entire intrinsic layer, but the holes generated in the region near the i/n interface travel a longer distance than those generated in the p/i region; thus, the long wavelength loss detects the recom- bination in the region near the i/n interface. If the solar cell has more effective P-type contamination than effective N-type contamination, the electric ﬁeld in the p/i region is weakened and in the i/n region is enhanced. As a result, a noticeable short wavelength loss is observed, while for the same reason a long wavelength QE loss measures an N-type contamination. Comparing the results in Figs. 24 and 25, one can see the correlation between the QE losses and the impurity distributions. Sample 21,821 has a high O content, especially in the i/n region, and has a noticeable long wavelength QE loss; sample 21,886 has the medium O content, the QE loss is almost undetectable, which means that the P-type and N-type contaminations are compen- sated each other, while sample 21,916 has the lowest O content, which shows a large short wavelength QE loss because the O contamination is not enough to compensate the B contamination. Table 2 lists the performance parameters of these three solar cells. Although sample 21,916 has the lowest O contamination, it has the lowest performance because of the loss of photo-current in the short wavelength; the middle O contaminated cell has the best efﬁciency of 10.5% with less than 1% of QE loss; but when the high O content is more than enough to compensate the B contamination as in 21,821, it causes the long wave length QE loss. From these results, one can see how sensitive the μc-Si:H solar cells to impurities. Boron Oxygen 21821 9.E+16 5.E+19 4.E+19 4.E+19 3.E+19 3.E+19 2.E+19 2.E+19 1.E+19 5.E+18 5.E+15 8.E+16 7.E+16 6.E+16 5.E+16 4.E+16 3.E+16 2.E+16 1.E+16 1.E+14 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 Depth (um) Depth (um) Boron Concentration (at./cm3) Oxygen Concentration (at./cm3) 2.5 3.0 3.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 21886 21916 21821 21886 21916 Fig. 25 Boron and oxygen proﬁles measured with SIMS in three μc-Si:H solar cells made with different chamber conditionings (Yue et al. 2012b) 718 Y. Zhao et al. The above results demonstrate that the μc-Si:H solar cells are very sensitive to impurities. For the P-type contamination by B, a very low level at 1016 cm3 could cause a noticeable change in the cell performance as indicated by the short wave- length loss. The reason for such a low tolerance is that B is a strong donor in μc-Si:H. In the early study, Meier et al. (1996) ﬁrst used B to compensate the unintentional O doing to improve μc-Si:H solar cell performance and achieved reasonable good results at the time and named the technique as microdoping. However, the high sensitivity of B doing leads to a narrow window for a proper compensation that also depends on the back ground N-type contamination; therefore, the microdoping technique might be only used as a method to study the fundamental contaminations and prove some concepts, but hardly be used in real high efﬁciency solar panel production. Similar to B, the sensitivity of μc-Si:H to P is also very high. However, the back ground contaminations from O and N cover the residual P effect in most cases, and less attention has been made on P contamination. From the real solar cell fabrication point of view, multichamber systems with a very low degassing rate and using high pure gases are preferred. In addition, special cares must be taken in the process to avoid any cross contaminations from the doing gases. Light-Induced Metastability in mc-Si:H Solar Cells One of the advantages of μc-Si:H solar cells over a-Si:H counterparts is low or no light-induced degradation. Early studies showed that μc-Si:H solar cells did not show any light-induced degradation as proven by Fig. 26 (Meier et al. 1998), where the μc-Si:H solar cell efﬁciency did not change after 1000 hours of light soaking, while the a-Si:H solar cell degraded by almost 50%. However, some μc-Si:H solar cells also show some degrees of light-induced degradations, especially those with a high percentage of amorphous phase. Yan et al. (2004c) did a systematic study on the light-induced degradations in μc- Si:H solar cells and compared a-Si:H and a-SiGe:H solar cells by using different light sources to determine where the light-induced degradation occurs. The design of the experiment is based on the hypothesis below. High efﬁciency μc-Si:H solar cells are usually deposited near the transition from the microcrystalline to the amorphous Table 2 The performance parameters of mc-Si:H solar cells with different impurity contaminations (Yue et al. 2012b) Sample Source Voc (V) FF QE(mA/cm2) QE loss (%) Eff. (%) 0 V -5 V 21,821 (N-type) Filter 610 0.525 0.720 15.15 16.15 6.19 5.73 AM1.5 0.541 0.720 26.54 27.65 4.01 10.34 21,886 (comp) Filter 610 0.529 0.709 16.93 17.07 0.82 6.35 AM1.5 0.543 0.691 28.15 28.43 0.98 10.56 21,916 (P-type) Filter 610 0.516 0.649 15.79 16.34 3.37 5.29 AM1.5 0.532 0.630 26.02 27.90 6.74 8.72 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 719 phase (Vetterl et al. 2000; Roschek et al. 2000), which means that a ﬁnite amount of the amorphous phase still exists in the μc-Si:H materials used in high efﬁciency solar cells. One therefore suspects that some light-induced degradations may present in the μc-Si:H solar cells due to the amorphous component. Indeed, Klein et al. (2003) found that μc-Si:H solar cells made with hydrogen dilution close to the microcrys- talline/amorphous transition showed light-induced degradations and that the degree of degradations depended on the dilution ratio and hence on the crystalline volume fraction. In general, μc-Si:H can be considered as a two-phase material with crys- talline grains surrounded by amorphous tissues. The photons with energy higher than the bandgap of a-Si:H are mainly absorbed in the amorphous phase while the lower energy ones in the grains. Inside the grains, the material properties are similar to crystalline silicon, and no light-induced defect generation is expected. Therefore, one may speculate that no light-induced defects are generated in grains when exposed to red light with photon energies lower than the optical band gap of a-Si: H. If this hypothesis is true, then one expects very little or no light-induced degradation in the μc-Si:H bottom cell of an a-Si:H/μc-Si:H double-junction or of an a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/μc-Si:H triple-junction structure because the high energy pho- tons are absorbed in the a-Si:H top and a-SiGe:H middle cells and do not reach the μc-Si:H bottom cell. To prove or disprove the above hypothesis, a light soaking experiment was made on μc-Si:H and a-SiGe:H solar cells under different light spectra. Figure 27 shows a comparison of the normalized maximum power, Pmax, as a function of light soaking time for a μc-Si:H solar cell and an a-SiGe:H solar cell, where the red and blue lights were obtained using a 665 nm long-pass ﬁlter and a 650 nm short-pass ﬁlter, respectively. The long-pass ﬁlter allows photons with energies lower than 1.86 eV 1 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0 100 102 104 1h 6 10 7.7 % 7.7 % 10.0 % 5.1 % 10 h 100 h Exposure time [sec] cell temperature T = 485C a-Si:H a-Si:H 0.6 μm 3.6 μm cell intensity (suns) η (init) η (final) thickness μc-Si:H μc-Si:H Normalized efficiency 106 Fig. 26 Comparative behavior of a μc-Si:H solar cell and an a-Si:H solar cell under intensive light illumination, from a sodium lamp. Efﬁciencies were measured before/after light soaking under standard conditions (Meier et al. 1998) 720 Y. Zhao et al. to pass through to illuminate the sample. For the μc-Si:H cell, the light intensities for the two spectra were adjusted to generate Jsc44 mA/cm2, which is approximately twice of the Jsc under AM1.5 illumination. For the a-SiGe:H cell, the light intensities were adjusted to generate Jsc46 mA/cm2 with the same consideration. Tables 3 and 4 summarize the J-V characteristics of the two series of cells in their initial and light soaked states. We need to point out that the light-soaked state is not a saturated state since only 15 hours of light soaking were made. Figure 27 clearly shows that there is no light-induced degradation for the μc-Si:H cell under the red light, but Table 3 Summary of light soaking results for mc-Si:H single-junction solar cells. IN represents the initial state, LS the light soaked state, and DEG the percentage of degradation Light State Jsc (mA/cm2) Voc (V) FF Eff. (%) White IN 22.20 0.474 0.621 6.53 LS 22.00 0.467 0.598 6.14 DEG. 0.9% 1.48% 3.70% 5.97% Red IN 22.19 0.472 0.620 6.49 LS 22.11 0.473 0.619 6.47 DEG 0.36% 0% 0% 0.31% Blue IN 21.98 0.476 0.621 6.50 LS 21.78 0.469 0.591 6.04 DEG 0.91% 1.47% 4.83% 7.08% 0.85 0.90 0.95 1.00 1.05 10 100 1000 Time (min) Pmax (t)/Pmax(0) White, a-SiGe:H Red, a-SiGe:H Blue, a-SiGe:H White, µc-Si:H Red, µc-Si:H Blue, µc-Si:H Fig. 27 Light soaking kinetics of the normalized efﬁciency of a μc-Si:H single-junction solar cell and an a-SiGe:H single-junction solar cell with different spectral regions 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 721 some degradations under the white light (see Table 3) and more degradation under the blue light. As explained above, the absence of light-induced degradation under the red light illumination is due to the lack of absorption in the amorphous phase and no light-induced defect generation in the crystalline phase. In contrast to the red light illumination, the white and blue light illuminations showed noticeable degradation in the cell performance. The difference in the degradation between the white- and blue- light soaked μc-Si:H cells could be explained in two ways. First, the blue light has a large portion of photons absorbed in the amorphous phase, which produces defects. Second, the blue light is absorbed near the i/p interface more than in the bulk. Pawlikiewicz and Guha (1988) showed that the i/p junction is the dominant junction and any change in this junction causes noticeable changes on the cell performance. For the a-SiGe:H cell, we consider the material to be homogenous having one optical band gap of about 1.5 eV. The differences among the light soaking results with the three lights with different spectra are mainly due to the second mechanism discussed above. Overall, the light-induced degradation in μc-Si:H is much less than that in the a-SiGe:H cell even under white and blue light. As pointed out earlier, the spectrum dependence of light-induced degradation in μc-Si:H solar cells has a signiﬁcant impact on the real solar module application. Thin ﬁlm silicon solar modules are normally made with a-Si:H/μc-Si:H double-junction, a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/μc-Si:H triple-junction, and a-Si:H/μc-Si:H/μc-Si:H triple-junction cell structures. The μc-Si:H middle and bottom cells do not see the blue light and therefore do not surfer any light-induced degradation, and overall multijunction solar cell stability is signiﬁcantly improved. Yue et al. demonstrated that high efﬁciency a-Si:H/μc-Si:H/μc-Si:H solar cells degraded only 35% after prolonged light soaking and a stable cell efﬁciency of 13.6% was achieved with this cell structure (Yue et al. 2006b). In a-Si:H solar cells, the metastability was also observed under a forward bias (Street 1991). The physics is similar to the Staebler-Wronski effect under light soaking. Under a forward bias, electrons and holes are injected from the n side and p side into the i-layer, respectively, and recombine there. The electron-hole recom- bination releases energy, generates metastable defects in the i-layer, and hence degrades the cell performance. A question is whether or not a forward bias carrier Table 4 Summary of light soaking results for a-SiGe:H single junction solar cells Light State Jsc (mA/cm2) Voc (V) FF Eff (%) White IN 23.10 0.628 0.601 8.72 LS 22.88 0.601 0.567 7.80 DEG 0.95% 4.30% 5.66% 10.55% Red IN 23.91 0.614 0.587 8.62 LS 23.48 0.601 0.563 7.94 DEG 1.80% 2.12% 4.09% 7.89% Blue IN 23.50 0.621 0.572 8.35 LS 22.91 0.591 0.539 7.30 DEG 2.51% 4.83% 5.77% 12.57% 722 Y. Zhao et al. injection results in any degradation in μc-Si:H solar cell. Because the carrier transport mainly takes place in the crystalline phase and the recombination would take place there as well. As shown by the red light soaking experiment, the recombination in the grains does not produce any degradation in μc-Si:H solar cell; therefore, one would expect that a forward bias on μc-Si:H should not result in any degradation in the cell performance. Figure 28 shows a comparison of forward injection current-induced FF changes as a function of forward bias time (Yue et al. 2007). Three solar cells of a-Si:H, a-SiGe:H, and μc-Si:H were under forward bias of 1 V, which leads to the initial forward current densities of 3 mA/cm2 for the a-Si:H cell, 72 mA/cm2 for the a-SiGe: H cell, and 60 mA/cm2 for the nc-Si:H cell. The FF of the a-SiGe:H degrades signiﬁcantly; the a-Si:H cell also shows some degrees of degradation even though the forward current density is only 3 mA/cm2, while the μc-Si:H cell does not degrade within the experimental errors. This experiment proved that the recombina- tion in the crystalline phase indeed does not produce metastable defects to degrade the μc-Si:H solar cell performance. Another interesting phenomenon of light-induced metastability in μc-Si:H is the electric bias effect (Yue et al. 2005, 2006b, 2007). For a-Si:H solar cells, it has been found that a reverse bias on an a-Si:H solar cell reduces the magnitude of the light-induced degradation because the reverse bias enhances the electric ﬁeld in the intrinsic layer and reduces the probability of recombination, which is the driving force of the Staebler-Wronski effect (Yang et al. 1992; Yang et al. 2002). However, an electric bias on μc-Si:H solar cells has an opposite effect on the light-induced degradation. A negative bias enhances the light-induced degra- dation, but a forward bias reduces the light-induced degradation as shown in Fig. 29 (Yue et al. 2005, 2007), where the light-induced degradation of FF under an AM1.5 illumination is plotted as a function of applied bias. In this experiment, eight μc-Si:H cells on the same substrate were light-soaked 0.93 0.95 0.97 0.99 1.01 1 10 100 1000 10000 Time (minutes) FF(t)/FFin a-Si:H (3 mA/cm2) nc-Si:H (60 mA/cm2) a-SiGe:H (72 mA/cm2) Fig. 28 The kinetic changes or normalized FF under 1 V forward bias for the a-Si:H, a-SiGe:H, and μc-Si:H solar cells (Yue et al. 2007) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 723 simultaneously under 100 mW/cm2 white light at 50 C with various bias condi- tions of 1 V, short circuit (0 V), open circuit (+0.48 V), and +1 V. To check the reproducibility of the degradation rate, two cells at each bias condition were included. The short circuit corresponds to the 0 V bias, and the open circuit is considered to be a forward bias of Voc, which is around 0.48 V. It is clearly seen that the light-induced degradation in FF was increased by the increase of the magnitude of the reverse bias. Under the 1 V bias condition, the FF degrades on the average by 10.9%, while the FF degrades only by 7.6% under the short circuit condition. Under the open circuit and +1 V bias conditions, however, the degra- dation in the FF is the same, around 3.8%. This unusual phenomenon has been repeatedly observed and conﬁrmed as the universal characteristics of μc-Si:H solar cells. To explain the observation, Yue et al. proposed a back-to-back diode module. For details, please refer Yue et al. (2005, 2006a, 2007). To summarize the metastability of μc-Si:H solar cells, we make the following conclusions. First, the light-induced degradation in μc-Si:H solar cells is generally lower than in a-Si:H solar cells and some μc-Si:H solar cells even show no light- induced degradation. Second, the light-induced degradation depends on the crystal- linity in the intrinsic layer; the high the crystallinity, the lower the light-induced degradation is. Third, the light-induced degradation is only caused by the photons with the energy higher than the bandgap of a-Si:H phase, and no light-induced degradation results from red light illumination, which indicates that the light-induced degradation occurs only in the amorphous phase and grain boundaries. Fourth, a double-carrier injection by a forward electric bias does not cause any degradation in μc-Si:H solar cells, which is different from a-Si:H solar cells. Finally, during light soaking, a revisers electric bias enhances the light-induced degradation and a forward bias reduces the light-induced degradation, which is also opposite with a-Si:H solar cells. Among these characteristics, the most important feature is no light-induced degradation with red light because μc-Si:H solar cells are normally 2 4 6 8 10 12 -1.5 -1 -0.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 DFF/FFin(%) Bias (V) Short circuit Open circuit Fig. 29 Light-induced degradation in FF versus the electrical bias during light soaking, where ΔFF denotes the variations in FF. The light soaking was carried out at 50 C under one sun white light for 309 h 724 Y. Zhao et al. used as the middle and bottom cells in multijunction solar cells, where the high energy photons are absorbed by the a-Si:H top cell. Light Trapping in mc-Si:H Solar Cells Although μc-Si:H has a much broader absorption spectrum than a-Si:H, which covers up to 1100 nm, the absorption coefﬁcients are still low in the long wavelength region because of the indirect band gap absorption. Therefore, the required μc-Si:H thickness for effectively absorbing the sun light is much thicker than a-Si:H. However, even the carrier mobility in μc-Si:H is higher than in a-Si:H, the absorber layer in μc-Si:H solar cells still cannot increase too much without signiﬁcantly suffering the loss in FF and Voc. Considering all of the performance parameters, the optimized μc-Si:H intrinsic layer thickness has been determined to be in the range of 35 μm. However, with the consideration of production efﬁciency and current mismatching, the μc-Si:H intrinsic layer could be limited to 12 μm for double-junction cells and 35 μm for triple-junction solar cells, which is still not thick enough to absorb the sun light to give enough current. Therefore, effective light trapping techniques are needed. Based on the solar cell structures, the light trapping methods for p-i-n and n-i-p structured μc-Si:H solar cells are different. The light trapping in n-i-p structured solar cells is mainly from the scattering at the back interface between the silicon layer and the back reﬂector (BR). The top TCO is 75-nm thick highly conductive ITO, which cannot provide enough textures for light trapping. The thin ITO functions as an antireﬂection (AR) coating to reduce the reﬂection loss. The BRs are made with Ag/ZnO or Al/ZnO double-layer struc- tures as shown in Fig. 30. Figure 31 shows a comparison of EQE curves of three μc- Si:H solar cells deposited with the same recipe but on different substrates, where a signiﬁcant enhancement of the long wavelength response is achieved by the light trapping. The μc-Si:H solar cell on the bare stainless steel has a total photocurrent density of 15.56 mA/cm2; the ones on the Al/ZnO and Ag/ZnO BRs have the values of 20.48 mA/cm2 and 24.48 mA/cm2 and the gains of 31.6% and 57.3%, CELL BACK REFLECTOR STAINLESS STEEL INCIDENT LIGHT ZnO Ag Fig. 30 Schematic of light trapping in an n-i-p structured μc-Si:H solar cell by a ZnO/Ag back reﬂector 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 725 respectively. It demonstrates that the Al/ZnO and Ag/ZnO are very effective for light trapping in μc-Si:H solar cells. The design and optimization of BR should take the following considerations. The textured metal layer (Ag or Al) reﬂects and scatters the light that reaches the BR; the ZnO layer reduces the plasmonic losses at the Ag/Si interface by shifting the plasmonic resonance frequency to the short wavelength region where the light is absorbed in the ﬁrst path. The ZnO layer also adds additional textures for light scattering. Therefore, the effectiveness of light trapping is determined by three factors of (1) the reﬂectivity, (2) the scattering, and (3) the reduction of surface absorption. For high efﬁciency μc-Si:H solar cells, Ag is normally used in the BR for its high reﬂectivity as shown in Fig. 30, but Al is used in some products for low cost. The scattering could occur at the texture surface of Ag and the texture surface of ZnO. The scattering at the Ag surface is much more effective than at ZnO surface, which means that a small scale texture on the Ag surface could provide a high level of scattering, while the texture of Ag surface could cause the plasmonic absorption. Thus, in order to reduce the plasmonic absorption, a ﬂat Ag surface and a highly textured ZnO layer are preferred theoretically, and it has been also conﬁrmed in a-SiGe:H solar cells. However, a high textured ZnO could cause the degradation of μc-Si:H quality as discussed later. Therefore, the design and optimization of Ag/ZnO BR need to compromise the textures of ZnO and Ag. Experimentally, it was found that a textured Ag with a thin ZnO (100 nm) is a good choice of the ZnO/Ag BR for μc-Si:H solar cells (Yan et al. 2012; Sivec et al. 2012). The texture on the Ag surface is much more effective than on ZnO to scatter light and therefore some moderate 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 350 450 550 650 750 850 950 QE Wavelength (nm) on SS on Al/ZnO on Ag/ZnO 15.56 mA/cm2 nc-Si:H cells 20.48 24.48 mA/cm2 Fig. 31 EQE curves of three μc-Si:H solar cells deposited with the same recipe but on different substrates 726 Y. Zhao et al. textures are good enough to provide the scattering for good light trapping. On the other hand, the thin ZnO layer shifts the plasmonic resonance frequency to the short wavelength region, where the light is absorbed before reaching the back contact. Figure 32 shows the surface morphologies of three ZnO/Ag BRs, where the textures are mainly from the Ag layer and the ZnO layers are the same for all of the samples with a thickness of 100 nm. Figure 33 plots the total and diffuse reﬂection spectra of the BRs. It shows that the total reﬂectance spectrum decreases slightly with the increases of Ag texture, which could result from the absorption at the Ag/ZnO interface and the light trapping in the ZnO layer because the optical constant of ZnO is larger than in air. However, the diffusive reﬂectance spectra are very different with different Ag texture. A signiﬁcance increase in the diffusive reﬂectance is observed by the increase of Ag texture, implying a potential enhancement for light trapping. The same μc-Si:H solar cells with 1 μm thick μc-Si:H intrinsic layer were deposited on this type of ZnO/Ag BR coated stainless steel substrates with different textures from the Ag layers. The EQE curves of four selected μc-Si:H solar cells are plotted in Fig. 34 and the cell performance parameters are listed in Table 5. It notes Fig. 32 AFM images of three Ag/ZnO BRs with different Ag textures, (left) low texture with RMS = 17 nm, (middle) medium texture with RMS = 40 nm, and (right) high texture with RMS = 118 nm 0 20 40 60 80 100 300 700 1100 1500 1900 2300 Total Reflection (%) Wavelength (nm) RMS=69.5 nm RMS=40.0 nm RMS=17.0 nm (a) 0 20 40 60 80 100 300 700 1100 1500 1900 2300 Diffuse Reflection (%) Wavelength (nm) RMS=118 nm RMS=91.7 nm RMS=69.5 nm RMS=56.8 nm RMS=40.0 nm RMS=33.1 nm RMS=17.0 nm (b) Fig. 33 The (a) total and (b) diffusive reﬂection spectra of Ag/ZnO back reﬂectors with various textures as measured by the RMS from AFM images 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 727 that the solar cells on the Ag/ZnO BR have a signiﬁcant higher response in the long wavelength region than on the bare SS and demonstrates again the effectiveness of the light trapping. The solar cell on the BR with RMS = 17 nm shows a signiﬁcant interference fringes, indicating a large amount of direct reﬂection, while with the increase of the texture, the interference fringes are reduced, associating the enhance- ment of scattering. The solar cell on the SS has only 15.12 mA/cm2 of Jsc, while the one on the Ag/ZnO BR with RMS = 40 nm has 25.03 mA/cm2, and a gain of 66% is observed. It is also found that increasing the texture further does not increase the spectral response further even the diffusive reﬂection is enhanced. Instead, the photocurrent density decreases slightly. Furthermore, the FF also decreases and the EQE loss (ΔQE) increases with the increase of the substrate texture, a phenomenon is often observed in μc-Si:H solar cells, and it relates to the structural defect formation caused by the high textured substrates. The details will be discussed later. By making a thicker μc-Si:H solar cell (3.1 μm) on the optimized Ag/ZnO BR, a high photocurrent density of 30.5 mA/cm2 was obtained with the J-V curve and EQE spectrum plotted in Fig. 35. From the above results, we conclude that the optimized Ag/ZnO BRs are very effective to increase the spectral response of μc-Si:H solar cells. A current gain over 60% compared to μc-Si:H solar cells on bare ﬂat SS substrates can be obtained. The best Ag/ZnO BRs with a textured Ag layer and thin ZnO (100 nm) is made with a proper texture of RMS around 40 nm. For the RMS beyond this value, no additional again in the photo-response is observed. Furthermore, the FF of the solar cells decreases with the increase of the surface roughness. With the optimized Ag/ZnO, a short circuit current density more than 30 mA/cm2 has been obtained with the cell thickness of 3 μm. The p-i-n structures are normally deposited on transparent conducive oxide (TCO) coated glass substrates. Because the light actually illuminates the solar cells on the substrate side and passes through the glass/TCO to reach the semiconductor layers, the substrate is also called superstrate. The light trapping in the p-i-n Fig. 34 EQE spectra of μc- Si:H solar cells made with the same recipes but on different Ag/ZnO BRs. The μc-Si:H intrinsic layer is 1 μm 728 Y. Zhao et al. Table 5 The J-V characteristics of mc-Si:H solar cells made with the same recipes but on different Ag/ZnO BRs. The mc-Si:H intrinsic layer is 1 mm RMS (nm) light Voc (V) FF FFb FFr QE(0 V) (mA/cm2) QE(-3 V) (mA/cm2) Pmax (mW/cm2) ΔQE (%) A 17.0 Color 0.722 0.720  610 nm 0.515 0.738 11.61 11.69 4.41 0.7 AM1.5 0.530 0.723 22.43 22.55 8.59 0.5 B 40.0 Color 0.716 0.72 610 nm 0.522 0.726 13.86 14.16 5.25 2.1 AM1.5 0.541 0.711 24.62 25.03 9.47 1.6 C 91.7 Color 0.703 0.704  610 nm 0.519 0.717 13.59 14.06 5.06 3.3 AM1.5 0.537 0.702 24.30 24.98 9.16 2.7 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 729 structured solar cells are normally achieved by using a textured TCO layer. Tin Oxide (SnO2) TCO layer is widely used in a-Si:H alloy based solar cells, but it is not suitable for μc-Si:H solar cell deposition because SnO2 reacts with the high density atomic hydrogen during the μc-Si:H deposition. Alternatively, ZnO is used as the TCO for μc-Si:H solar cells. Although undoped ZnO already has an N-type trans- port, the conductivity is not high enough to meet the low series resistance require- ment; Al, B, or Ga is added as the doping elements during the ZnO deposition to increase the conductivity. The Al doped ZnO is called AZO, which usually deposited using megaton sputtering of an Al2O3 doped ZnO ceramic target. The effectiveness of light trapping strongly depends on the texture of the TCO. Normally, the as-deposited AZO is relatively ﬂat and does not have the required textures for effective light trapping; a chemical etching method using diluted HCl is used to increase the texture of AZO (MuKller et al. 2001; Müller et al. 2003; Hüpkes et al. 2012). Figure 36 shows the surface morphologies of a AZO sample after chemical 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 1100 0 20 40 60 80 100 Wavelength (nm) Transmittance (%) 0 20 40 60 80 100 Haze (%) Fig. 36 Tilt-view scanning electron microscope (SEM) images and experimentally measured total transmittance and haze spectra of a magnetron-sputtered and texture-etched AZO -35 -30 -25 -20 -15 -10 -5 0 5 -0.1 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 J (mA/cm2) V (V) Jsc=30.47 mA/cm2 Voc=0.488 V FF=0.646 Rs=2.33 W.cm2 Eff=9.61% (a) 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 300 500 700 900 1100 QE Wavelength (nm) 0 V -5 V (b) Fig. 35 J-V characteristics and EQE spectrum a μc-Si:H solar cell with total photocurrent density  30 mA/cm2 730 Y. Zhao et al. etching and its transmittance as well as the haze spectra. One can see that the surface texture with crater-like structures and the haze is very high in the wide spectrum range. The surface of sputtered AZO can also be changed by optimizing the deposition process, such as the substrate temperature, ﬁlm thickness, excitation power, and pressure. Huang et al. (2012) found that adding H2 during the sputtering process can increase the surface texture. The AZO substrate made with this method shows an effective enhancement for photocurrent in μc-Si:H solar cells. Most importantly, this method can eliminate the chemical etching process and reduce the thin ﬁlm solar panel manufacturing cost. The B doped ZnO is called BZO, which is normally made using a low pressure chemical vapor deposition (LP-CVD) process. The textures of the LP-CVD depos- ited BZO form during the deposition and can be modiﬁed by the process parameters, especially the substrate temperature and process pressure (Meier et al. 2002; Nicolay et al. 2011). Figure 37 shows the surface morphology comparison of an LP-CVD prepared BZO sample with the industrially used SnO2 TCO samples; both samples show very similar surface structures. The LP-CVD deposited BZO has crystal-like surface structures instead of the crater-like structures on the chemically etched AZO substrates. The LP-CVD deposited BZO is also an effective light trapping substrate for μc-Si:H solar cells and has been incorporated in TEL Solars thin ﬁlm silicon solar module manufacturing lines (Cashmore et al. 2016). As previously mentioned, a highly textured substrate could cause the degradation of μc-Si:H material quality and solar cell performance. If only considering the optical properties for light trapping, a highly textured substrate would be preferred for μc-Si:H solar cells; however, in reality it is much complicated in μc-Si:H solar cell fabrications. The main issue is that the surface texture directly impacts the growth of μc-Si:H materials. It has been found that the crystallites have the tendency to form columnar structures perpendicular to the local growth surface. The shape of the textured surface, such as the average slope and the angle at the bottom of valleys, Fig. 37 Comparison of (left) SnO2 and (right) LP-CVB BZO surface morphology SEM images (Meier et al. 2002) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 731 affects the μc-Si:H solar cell performance signiﬁcantly (Nasuno et al. 2001). If the substrate has a high texture, the columnar structures on the local surface could meet each other and lead to microvoids and microcracks as shown in Fig. 38 (Python et al. 2009), where the left image reveals the cross-section of a μc-Si:H solar cell deposited on a c-Si wafer having a pyramidal structured surfaces with sharp angles at the bottom of valleys called V shape, while the right one is on the substrate with chemically smoothed the surface to remove the sharp peaks and valleys and make the surface having the textures of U shape. It is clear that the μc-Si:H deposited on the V shaped substrate has microcracks all the way going through the entire thickness of the sample, while not much microcracks can be observed in the μc-Si: H solar cell on the U shaped substrate. The texture-induced microcracks not only reduce μc-Si:H solar cell efﬁciency, but also cause ambient degradation from the postdeposition impurity diffusion. Based on the results above, Bailat et al. proposed using a plasma treatment to smooth the textures on ZnO substrates and demonstrated a noticeable improvement in μc-Si:H solar cell performance (Bailat et al. 2006). The group in AIST, Japan, invented an electric ﬂat and optical textured back reﬂector as shown in Fig. 39 (Sai et al. 2011, 2012), which is made of two materials with different dielectric constants and forms a ﬂat surface. The ﬂat surface of the back reﬂector ensures microcrack-free deposition of μc-Si:H layers and the array made with two dielectrics scatters the light for light trapping. In reality, they used N-type a-Si:H and ZnO to form such back reﬂector (Fig. 40) and made a signiﬁcant improvement in μc-Si:H solar cell performance as listed in Table 6 (Sai et al. 2011). Comparing the baseline cell on the ﬂat substrate, the μc-Si:H solar cell deposited on the textured back reﬂector has a signiﬁcant gain in the current due to the effective light trapping, but some losses in the Voc and FF caused by the degradation of μc-Si:H material quality by the texture. Such detrimental effect becomes more serious in the cells on the normal grating substrate because of the highly structural texture. However, the solar cell on the ﬂattened grating substrate shows the same Voc and FF as the cell on the ﬂat substrate, indicating the same high quality Fig. 38 TEM micrograph cross-section of a single-junction p-i-n solar cell deposited on a pyramidal wafer substrate. On the left, the V-shaped valleys of the substrate lead to cracks crossing the whole p-i-n device. On the right, the U-shaped substrate valleys result in a crack only in the last half of the μc-Si:H layer (Python et al. 2009) 732 Y. Zhao et al. μc-Si:H as the one on the ﬂat substrate. However, although the Jsc is higher than the cell on the conventional grating substrate, it is not as high as the one on the randomly textured reference substrates. Two issues might cause the less effectiveness of light trapping of the grating substrate: ﬁrst the grating substrate might be effective in some wavelength region, but the sun light has a broad spectrum; second the N-type a-Si:H in the ﬂattened back reﬂector absorbs some of the light reaching there. In this speciﬁc structure, the grating substrate does not have high response in the middle wavelength region, which was attributed to the absorption in the N-type a-Si:H layer in the back reﬂector. Such losses could be minimized when the μc-Si:H solar cells used as the Fig. 40 SEM images of (a) the conventional a-Si:H and ZnO grating and (b) the ﬂattened a-Si:H and ZnO grating (Sai et al. 2011) Table 6 J-V characteristics of mc-Si:H solar cells deposited on different textured substrates (Sai et al. 2011) Substrate Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm2) FF Eff (%) Flat 0.538 17.8 0.764 7.3 Texture 0.526 20.8 0.729 8.0 Grating 0.445 18.81 0.655 5.5 Polished grating 0.539 19.3 0.757 7.9 supporting substrate reflector/electrode film growth light active layer (nactive) incident light A(nA) B(nB) FLISS n i p d a X L y z q f Fig. 39 Schematics of (left) a μc-Si:H solar cell on (right) an electric ﬂat and optical textured back reﬂector (Sai et al. 2011) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 733 bottom cell in multijunction solar cells. In addition, the antireﬂection effect of the ITO layer on the ﬂat solar cell is not as effective as on textured solar cells. Using the same principle, the Neuchal group made electric ﬂat and optical texture back reﬂector by depositing an a-Si:H on randomly textured Ag/ZnO back reﬂector and then polishing the a-Si:H layer to use the remaining a-Si:H in the valleys to obtain a ﬂat surface for high quality μc-Si:H deposition as shown in Fig. 41 (Söderströmn et al. 2012a, b). The left panel shows the SEM images of the surface morphologies before and after the polishing as well as the schematic of the μc-Si:H solar cell on such substrates; the right panel gives the same sequence of the plasma treatment process for smoothing the ZnO texture as the reference. In the polished substrates, the textures of the ZnO layer provide the effective light trapping and the ﬂattened a-Si:H layer provides the ﬂat surface for maintaining the μc-Si:H quality. In addition, the high peaks of the ZnO reached out of the ﬁlling Fig. 41 SEM images of (left) polished substrates and (right) reference textured substrate during fabrication. Schematic drawings of cells grown on both types of substrates appear below. The colored arrows in the lower left panel illustrate loss in light trapping due to the ﬂat ZnO/Si zones. The dashed lines in the lower right panel illustrate porous areas due to defective μc-Si:H growth (Söderströmn et al. 2012a) 734 Y. Zhao et al. a-Si:H layer and ﬂattened as well, which provide the electric contact for the current ﬂow such that an undoped a-Si:H layer can be used as the ﬁlling materials without additional serious resistance. Table 7 summarizes the solar cell perfor- mances on different back reﬂectors. Comparing the ﬁrst two rows of μc-Si:H solar cells, it is noted that the polished substrate results in a signiﬁcant improvement in the FF and Voc, which leads to an efﬁciency increase from 8.0% to 9.6%. The slightly low Jsc is caused by the additional absorption by the ﬁlling a-Si:H materials that result in a dip in the EQE at around 700 nm (Söderströmn et al. 2012a). It has also found that the detrimental effect of the substrate texture could be mitigated by using well-designed cell architectures. The use of a p-(SiOx:H) doped layer helps the cell to be less sensitive to locally porous material, which leads to an increase of the reference cell FF, as expected and demonstrated in the third row of Table 7. Nevertheless, the cell on the polished substrate with a p-(μc- Si:H) doped layer outperforms the reference cell in Voc and FF. This result demonstrates that textures of the substrate indeed have a detrimental effect on μc-Si:H solar cell deposition and using an electric ﬂat and optical textured substrate is an effective method to resolve this issue. Söderströmn et al. used the polished substrate to make a-Si:H/μc-Si:H/μc-Si:H triple-junction solar cells and achieved initial and stable solar cell efﬁciencies of 13.7% and 12.5% (Söderströmn et al. 2012b). As discussed above, light trapping is an important technique for improving μc-Si: H solar cell performance. Beside the conventional light trapping schemes using randomly textured Ag/ZnO back reﬂectors for n-i-p structures and randomly tex- tured AZO or BZO coated glass substrates for p-i-n structures, new advanced light trapping methods using plasmonic metal nanostructures (Pillai et al. 2007; Spinelli et al. 2012; Tan et al. 2013) and periodic photonic structures (Battaglia et al. 2012; Chen et al. 2015; Sai et al. 2009) have been extensively studied in recent years. Although some improvements have been achieved in the photocurrent gain, it is still not conclusive whether the modern light trapping approaches are better than the classic light trapping with randomly textured substrates and all of the record efﬁciencies for thin ﬁlm silicon solar cells are achieved using the traditional ran- domly textured substrates. Because the advanced light trapping techniques are mainly dealing with the optical properties instead of the inﬂuence on μc-Si:H properties, it is not in the scope of this chapter. Readers are referred to the articles Battaglia et al. (2012), Chen et al. (2015), Pillai et al. (2007), Sai et al. (2009), Spinelli et al. (2012), and Tan et al. (2013). Table 7 Results of two co-deposited cells with a p-(mc-Si:H) doped layer optimized for polished substrates and for a cell with a p-doped mc-SiOx:H layer optimized for textured substrates (Söderströmn et al. 2012a) Type of substrate/p-doped layer FF Voc (V) Jsc (mA/cm2) Eff (%) Textured/p-μc-Si:H 0.58 0.494 28.0 8.0 Polished A/p-μc-Si:H 0.67 0.520 27.3 9.5 Textured/p-μc-SiOx:H 0.62 0.491 28.3 8.6 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 735 Microcrystalline Silicon Germanium Alloy mc-SiGe:H Similar to a-Si:H alloys, several microcrystalline silicon alloys have been studied for various applications. Used as the absorber layer to extend the infrared absorption, hydrogenated microcrystalline silicon germanium (μc-SiGe:H) is proposed by the ASIT group (Ganguly et al. 1996) and has been studied by the community (Carius et al. 1998; Matsui et al. 2006, 2007, 2009; Ni et al. 2014). Alloying Ge into μc-Si:H can reduce the bandgap further, which could expand the absorption edge beyond 1100 nm that is usually limited by the bandgap of the crystalline phase in μc-Si:H absorber layer. Figure 42 shows some EQE curves of μc-SiGe:H solar cells with various Ge contents, and Table 8 lists the cell performance parameters, where the μc- SiGe:H intrinsic layer is 1 μm. It is noted that the long wavelength response is increased remarkable by the incorporation of Ge. The Jsc for the cell without Ge is 18.5 mA/cm2, while the one with 20% Ge content goes up to 24.1 mA/cm2 with a gain of 30% in the photocurrent density. However, a further increase in Ge content leads to a considerable degradation in all solar cell parameters. For Ge content of x = 40.2%, the decrease in Voc is much greater than the band gap narrowing, indicating that the solar cell performance is dominated by the carrier recombination due to the increased dangling bond defects in the μc-SiGe:H i-layer. It is also noted that in the high Ge content solar cells, the short wavelength length response is reduced signiﬁcantly by the increase of Ge related defects, which act as weak P-type doing and weaken the electric ﬁeld in the region near the p/i interfaces. A proper O doping can Fig. 42 (left) EQE curves of μc-Si1-xGex:H solar cells with various Ge contents, (right) J-V curve of a μc-Si1-xGex:H solar cell with 20% of Ge content (Matsui et al. 2009) Table 8 Illuminated JV parameters of the mc-Si1-xGex:H p-i-n solar cells with different Ge contents in the i-layer (Matsui et al. 2009) G content x Thickness (μm) Voc (mV) Jsc (mA/cm2) FF Eff (%) 0.00 1.0 560 18.5 0.730 7.75 0.20 1.0 412 23.6 0.663 6.12 0.35 1.0 214 20.6 0.380 1.67 0.42 0.9 195 18.8 0.354 1.29 736 Y. Zhao et al. compensate such P-type defect and improve the cell performance. Ni et al. (2014) used a proper ion bombardment technique to improve the μc-SiGe:H quality with a high Ge content up to 77% and made reasonable good solar cells with the EQE extended to 1300 nm as shown in Fig. 43. The short wavelength EQE losses can be recovered by a reverse bias voltage to enhance the electric ﬁeld for carrier collection as shown in Fig. 43, conﬁrming the losses is indeed from recombination. As a narrow bandgap material, μc-SiGe:H can extend the long wavelength response of solar cells. However, the overall material quality still needs to be further improved. Currently, the losses in FF and Voc with the incorporation of Ge are more than the gain in the current for the efﬁciency contributions; therefore, a higher efﬁciency with μc-SiGe:H as bottom cell than with μc-Si:H bottom cell has not been achieved in double- and triple-junction solar cells. There might be a hope to use μc-SiGe:H in quadruple-junction solar cells to obtain a high efﬁciency. High Rate Deposition of mc-Si:H Because μc-Si:H solar cells needs the absorber layer around 35 μm, a high rate deposition of μc-Si:H is a critical technology for a-Si:H and μc-Si:H based multi- junction solar cell application. As previously discussed, high hydrogen dilution is the key parameter for μc-Si:H deposition, but high hydrogen dilution normally reduces the deposition rate; one could increase the deposition rate by increasing 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 400 600 d=1000 nm d=300 nm Vbias= -1 V Vbias= -1 V Jsc=20.85 mA/cm2 Jsc=24.87 mA/cm2 Jsc=27.76 mA/cm2 800 Ge content x=0.77 Ge content x=0.77 (-1V) Ge content x=0.05 Ge content x=0.42 (AIST) Ge content x=0.40 (AIST) (-1V) 1000 1200 1400 Wavelength (nm) Quantum efficiency (%) Fig. 43 Quantum efﬁciency spectra of μc-Si1-xGex:H p-i-n solar cells with different Ge contents (squares: x = 0.77, dashed blue line: x = 0.77 measured under reverse bias voltage of 1 V, triangles: x = 0.05). The μc-Si1-xGex:H solar cells with champion response in the long-wavelength regions are shown for comparison (solid black line: x = 0.42 from AIST, see; dashed black line: x = 0.40 measured under reverse bias voltage of 1 V (Ni et al. 2014) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 737 the RF power, but a high RF power causes high energy bombardments and reduces the material quality. Therefore, using the conventional RF PECVD is difﬁcult to achieve high rate deposition for μc-Si:H materials. Over the years, many techniques have been explored for μc-Si:H depositions including RF PECVD, VHF PECVD, microwave PECVD, how-wire CVD, and Photo-CVD. The most successful and widely used method for high rate μc-Si:H is VHF PECVD in the high power, high pressure depleting regime. Therefore, we present some details of this method below. The Neuchatel group was the pioneer using VHF PECVD for thin ﬁlm silicon deposition (Meier et al. 1994a, b, 1996; Shah et al. 2003). As shown in the previous chapter, under the same excitation power, the deposition rate increases with the excitation frequency, which is attributed the high dissociation rate with high frequency and therefore a high plasma density. The high dissociation rate results in a high atomic hydrogen ﬂux intensity to the growth surface and promotes the formation of μc-Si:H. Therefore, VHF PECVD is the mostly used method for high rate μc-Si:H solar cells. Because of the shortened wavelength of VHF electromagnetic wave with the increase of frequency, the large area uniformity is a challenge in large area VHF PECVD system design. A compromised frequency for large area PECVD deposition and good μc-Si:H quality is in the range of 40 MHz to 80 MHz, and 60 MHz or 65 MHz is often selected. With VHF PECVD, high-quality μc-Si:H materials can be made at the deposition rate in the range of 23 nm/s, which can reach the same production efﬁciency as a-Si:H and a-SiGe:H multijunction solar panel production. The group at AIST, Japan, invented high pressure depleting (HDP) mode in RF PECVD for high rate μc-Si:H deposition (Fukawa et al. 2001; Gou et al. 1998; Kondo 2003). The logic is that a high RF power is needed for achieving a high rate deposition, but the high RF power generates high energy ions that bombard the growth surface and results in a high defect density in the deposited materials; to reduce the high energy ion bombardments, one could increase the process pressures to increase the collision of ions during the transport to the growth surface and reduce the ion energy. A high RF power also increases the dissociation rate and produces additional hydrogen atoms by breaking SiH4 molecules, especially at the depleting conditions where all of the active gases are dissociated for ﬁlm deposition. In this case, the required hydrogen dilution for microcrystalline formation is reduced because of the extra atomic hydrogen from SiH4 molecules. Based on the Paschen curve, one needs to reduce the gap between the cathode and the anode for getting stable plasma when the pressure is increased. Therefore, the electrode gap is normally narrower when the HDP mode is used. For example, a gap of 46 cm could be used when the deposition pressure is at 12 torr, and it should be reduced to around or below 1.0 cm when the pressure is increased to 5 torr. Another method to reduce the ion energy in the high RF power deposition is to insert a mesh electrode in front of the substrate (Kondo 2003; Matsui and Kondo 2013); by biasing or grounding the mesh electrode, the ion energy can be controlled and the deposited material quality can be improved. However, the mesh electrode blocks some species from reaching the growth surface and therefore it reduces the deposition rates in some degrees. Figure 44 shows deposition rates as a function of RF power in an RF PECVD system with and without the mesh electrode. It is noted 738 Y. Zhao et al. that in the un-depleting regime, the deposition rate increases with the RF power due to the increase of dissociation rate and the plasma density, and then it saturates and starts to decrease with the RF power, indicating a depleting of the active gases where the increased atomic hydrogen etches the growth surface and reduces the deposition rates. Figure 44 also plots the crystallinity as a function of RF power, showing the sharp increase of crystallinity when the depleting mode is reached. Figure 45 shows the defect density measured by electron spin resonance (ESR) versus the deposition rate in three cases of the conventional, HPD,and meshed RF PECVD depositions. In the conventional RF PECVD, the defect density increases sharply with the deposi- tion rate, the slope of defect increase with RF power becomes shallower in the HPD case, and much lower defect density is obtained with the meshed conﬁguration, indicating the advantages of the HPD and meshed PECVD depositions. It has also been found that an optimized design of the cathode and gas distribu- tion/pumping systems can also improve the μc-Si:H material quality and solar cell efﬁciency. A multihole cathode also designed by the ASIT group is shown in Fig. 46. Using this system (Niikura et al. 2004, 2006), the defect density was further reduced to 5  1015 cm3 for μc-Si:H deposited at 8 nm/s as shown in Fig. 47 (Niikura et al. 2004). Panasonic has also designed a similar system named Localized Plasma Conﬁnement (LPC-CVD) (Terakawa 2013) and improved their large area a-Si:H/μ c-Si:H module efﬁciency signiﬁcantly at a high deposition rate. A group at Osaka University used an atmosphere pressure 150 MHz VHF-PECVD to increase the deposition rate of μc-Si:H to 80 nm/s and demonstrated the good material quality, but the techniques have some difﬁculty for large area deposition (Kakiuchi et al. 2009). 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 0 50 100 150 200 with mesh with mesh without mesh SiH4/H2=30/270 Deposition rate (nm/s) Crystalline volume fraction (%) 250 300 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 Power (W) Fig. 44 The deposition rate and the crystalline volume fraction as a function of the power under high-pressure depletion conditions using VHF plasma with and without the mesh. The ﬁlm structure is shown only the case with the mesh because the ﬁlm structure without using the mesh is always amorphous (Kondo 2003) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 739 Strobel et al. (2015) increased the VHF frequency to 140 MHz, which could increase the deposition further, but also facing large area uniformity issue. High rate deposition μc-Si:H is still a bottle neck for a-Si:H/μc-Si:H based solar cell module production with large area systems. By compromising the deposition rate, uniformity, material quality, and the complexity of large system design, a commonly used production technique is VHF PECVD under the HPD regime with a narrow gap space between the cathode and the substrate. The excitation frequency is in the range between 40 MHz and 80 MHz with a deposition rate in the order of 12 nm/s. For example, TEL Solars production machine uses 40 MHz VHF PECVD. mc-Si:H Thin Film Silicon Solar Cell Design and Optimization A good material quality is the necessary condition, but not the sufﬁcient condition for achieving high efﬁciency solar cells. The optimizations in device design and fabrication are all important procedures for achieving high efﬁciency solar cells. For μc-Si:H solar cells, several topics as directly related to the material properties and their inﬂuence on cell performance have been addressed above, such as the hydrogen dilution proﬁle, improving the compactness of μc-Si:H materials, and light trapping. Below, we discuss two other important aspects: the doped layer and the interface. Doped Layer In the early time, B-doped and P-doped a-Si:H layer are used as the p and n layers, respectively, in p-i-n and n-i-p structured thin ﬁlm solar cells. The B-doped a-Si:H 1018 1017 1016 1015 0 1 2 3 4 5 (c) (B) (A) 6 Deposition rate (nm/s) Defect density (cm-3) Fig. 45 Defect density measured by ESR as a function of deposition rate using three different methods; (a) conventional method, (b) high pressure depletion method, and (c) triode method (Kondo 2003) 740 Y. Zhao et al. was deposited with B2H6 as the doping gas and PH3 as the N-type doping gas. Because B2H6 is not stable and could be thermally dissociated in the cylinder, the process parameter could shift with time. In addition the bandgap of B-doped a-Si:H narrows with the increase of B content, and it reduces the short wavelength response of solar cells. Alternatively, B-doped a-SiCx:H has been widely used as the p layer in a-Si:H and μc-Si:H solar cells with Trimethylboron (TMB) as the doping gas Source gas Surface configuration d (a) Conventional (b) High pressure depletion (c) Novel cathode (series 2) (c) Novel cathode (with improved conditions) 10 8 6 4 2 Growth rate (nm/s) 0 Defect density (cm-3) 1015 1016 1017 1018 c b a Fig. 46 (upper) A multihole cathode designed by the ASIT group, and (lower) the defect density versus the deposition rate with various methods (Niikura et al. 2004, 2006) 1.00 0.75 SiOx with a-SiOx:H μc-Si:H phase μc-Si:H 0.50 0.25 0.00 Raman Intensity 400 450 500 550 Stokes Shift [cm-1] Fig. 47 The spectra of the μc-SiOx:H layer is deconvoluted in an a-SiOx:H peak (dashed line) and a μc- Si:H peak (dotted line) to calculate the crystalline volume fraction (Lambertz et al. 2011) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 741 (Tawada et al. 1982; Komuro et al. 1984). The group at United Solar invented B-doped μc-Si:H:F using BF3 as the doping gas and improved the Voc signiﬁcantly in a-Si:H, a-SiGe:H and μc-Si:H solar cells (Guha et al. 1986). Nowadays, for high efﬁciency μc-Si:H solar cells, the doped layers (both p-layer and n-layer) use microcrystalline silicon oxide μc-SiOx:H (Buehlmann et al. 2007; Bugnon et al. 2012; Hou et al. 2015; Janthong et al. 2012; Lambertz et al. 2011, 2012, 2013; Smirnov et al. 2012), which is also called nc-SiOx:H. Therefore, we will mainly discuss μc-SiOx:H below. μc-SiOx:H materials are a mixture of nanometer sized Si grains (nc-Si) embedded in an a-SiOx:H matrix. Figure 47 shows a Raman spectrum of μc-SiOx:H material with the deconvolution with c-Si TO mode and the a-SiOx:H component (Lambertz et al. 2011). Such a two-phase structure results in the following unique properties. First, the crystalline phase is mainly nanometer sized silicon, where the doping efﬁciency could be high and form high conductive paths for current ﬂow, especially in the vertical direction to the sample surface. The high doping efﬁciency and high conductivity establish the fundamental of the doped layers for solar cell application. The material can be doped in both N-type and P-type as shown in Fig. 48. Second, the a-SiOx:H tissue has a wide optical bandgap as measured by E04, where the absorption coefﬁcient equals 104 cm1, and low absorption coefﬁcients for the window layer application; it greatly improves the short wavelength response on solar cells as shown in Fig. 49, which shows the performance a μc-Si:H solar cell with the μc-SiOx:H p-layer. One can see that the EQE at the short wavelength is very high, beneﬁted from the low absorption in the μc-SiOx:H p-layer and the additional Fig. 48 The electrical conductivity values for μc-SiOx:H n-type (circles, triangles) and p-type (squares) ﬁlms as a function of the band gap energy E04 (left) and as a function of the refractive index n (right), respectively (Lambertz et al. 2013) 742 Y. Zhao et al. antireﬂection coating effect. Using a μc-SiOx:H n-layer also improves μc-Si:H solar cell performance, by reducing the long wavelength loss absorbed in the n-layer, enhancing the light trapping and preventing microshunting caused by the textured substrates. The refractive index n of μc-SiOx:H changes with the O content and can be tuned between 3.5 and 2.0 as shown in Fig. 48, which can act as the dielectric layer for light Best cell (0.25 cm2) 5 0 -5 -10 -15 -20 -25 -30 -0.1 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 27.47 mA cm-2 (OV) 27.58 mA cm-2 (-1V) 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.0 400 500 600 700 Wavelength (nm) EQE 800 900 1000 1100 0.0 0.1 0.2 Voltage bias (V) Current density (mA cm2) 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 VOC = 535 mV JSC = 27.47 mA cm-2 Solar cell efficiency = 10.9% FF = 74.2% Fig. 49 J-V characteristics and EQE curves under 0 V and 1 V of the best-performing single- junction p-i-n μc-Si:H solar cell (0.25 cm2) with an intrinsic layer thickness of 2 μm deposited at 3 Å/s with optimized SiOx:H doped layers and interfaces along with an anti-reﬂective coating at the air/glass interface (Bugnon et al. 2012) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 743 trapping and light management such as an intermedium reﬂection layer in multi- junction solar cells by reﬂecting some portion of light back to the a-Si:H top cell to achieve the designed current mismatching between the subcells (Janthong et al. 2012; Jung et al. 2014; Lambertz et al. 2013; Yamamoto et al. 2005). Because of the functions as doped layer and intermedium refection layer, Yan et al. (2011) used it as the dual-function layer of n layer and intermedium reﬂection layer in a-Si:H/a-SiGe: H/μc-Si:H triple-junction solar cells and achieved a record efﬁciency of 16.3%. Interface Layers Except for the intrinsic and doped layers, the interfaces between the intrinsic and doped layers also affect the cell performance signiﬁcantly. Mai et al. incorporated an intrinsic μc-Si:H buffer layer at p/i interface prepared by hot-wire CVD process into PECVD fabricated μc-Si:H solar cells and improved the Voc by weakening the ion bombardment damage at the p/i interface (Mai et al. 2006). the J-V characteristic curves the cells with and without the hot-wire CVD buffer layer are shown in the Fig. 50, which demonstrates the effectiveness of the hot-wire deposited buffer layer in the improvement of Voc and results in an record efﬁciency of 10.3% at the time. An intrinsic a-Si:H buffer layer can also improves μc-Si:H solar cell performance by reducing the microshunt path, blocking the diffusion of doping atom into the intrinsic layer (Yue et al. 2008; Bai et al. 2015a). Since μc-SiOx:H p layer has been widely used as the window layer in μc-Si:H solar cells, it is logical to use an a-SiOx: H or μc-SiOx:H as the p/i buffer layer. Figure 51 depicts the illuminated J-V characteristics and EQE curves of two μc-Si:H single-junction solar cells with and without the intrinsic μc-SiOx:H buffer, which show an noticeable improvement in the cell performance (Bai et al. 2015a). It was also found that the use of intrinsic silicon oxide as a buffer layer at the p/i interface of μc-Si:H solar cells provided signiﬁcant advantages (Bugnon et al. 2014) in μc-Si:H solar cells: an improvement in carrier collection in the blue region of the spectrum is systematically observed, as shown in Fig. 52, which might result from Fig. 50 J-V characteristics of μc-Si:H single-junction solar cells with and without a hot wire CVD deposited p/i buffer, where the bulk i-layer was deposited by PECVD at 1.1 nm/s (Mai et al. 2006) 744 Y. Zhao et al. the reduction of B contamination from the p-layer and the change of crystalline structure in the i-layer near the p/i interface. An intrinsic or N-type a-Si:H buffer layer inserted between the μc-Si:H intrinsic and nc-SiOx:H n layers can also improve the cell performance by reducing the bandgap mismatching, blocking the diffusion of doping atoms into the intrinsic layer, and removing the micro-shunt paths (Bai et al. 2015b; Söderström et al. 2008). An example is shown in Fig. 53 (Bai et al. 2015b), where a series of μc-Si: H single-junction solar cells were made with the same condition except with different n-type a-Si:H buffer thicknesses (0, 4, 6, 8, and 10 nm). It evidently shows that as the buffer layer thickness gradually increased from 0 nm to 10 nm, the Voc of the samples maintained nearly the same value (about 0.545 V). However, 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0 5 10 15 20 25 Current Density(mAcm -2) with intrinsic nc-SiOx:H buffer Voc=549.8mV FF=71.66% Jsc=25.94mAcm -2 Eff. =10.22% Voltage (V) w/o intrinsic nc-SiOx:H buffer Voc=545.3mV FF=71.21% Jsc=24.77mAcm -2 Eff. =9.62% 400 600 800 1000 0 20 40 60 80 w/o intrinsic nc-SiOx:H buffer with intrinsic nc-SiOx:H buffer EQE (%) Wavelength (nm) a b Fig. 51 (a) Illuminated J-V characteristics and (b) EQE curves of μc-Si:H single-junction solar cells with and without intrinsic μc-SiOx: H buffers (Bai et al. 2015a) Fig. 52 Sample scheme of a p-i-n cell with a SiOx:H buffer at the p/i interface, and the EQE of the p-i-n μc-Si:H solar cells, with (red) and without (black) the SiOx buffer layer at the p/i interface (Bugnon et al. 2014) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 745 the FF continuously decreased from 72.54% to 67.45%, which might be due to the additional series resistance, while the Jsc values obtained from the EQE at 0 V and 1 V gradually increased with the buffer thickness until it reached the maximum at the 8 nm thickness, after which it slightly decreased. The increase in Jsc values mainly originates from the increases of the long-wavelength response. The variation trend of efﬁciency (Eff) with the buffer layer thickness values is similar to that of Jsc, an experimental observation proving that the Jsc variation has the strongest inﬂuence on the overall power output in this study. A maximized efﬁciency of 9.39% was achieved when an n-type a-Si:H buffer layer with a thickness of 8 nm is inserted between the μc-Si:H intrinsic and n-type nc-SiOx:H layers. High Efficiency mc-Si:H Single-Junction Solar Cell From the results above, one may realize that the design and optimization of μc-Si:H solar cell efﬁciency is a complicated scientiﬁc and engineering process. A better understanding of the deposition process and its correlation with the material prop- erties helps to design a cell fabrication process to deposit high quality materials; an optimized device design with the best materials and well-controlled interface is also critical for solar cell performance. In addition, the transparent electrodes and back reﬂectors have to be optimized as well. Over the years, the community has made a 0 2 4 6 8 10 66 68 70 72 0.530 0.535 0.540 0.545 0.550 0.555 0.560 FF (%) Thickness(nm) Voc (V) 0 2 4 6 8 10 7.5 8.0 8.5 9.0 9.5 20 22 24 26 Eff. (%) Thickness (nm) Jsc (mA/cm 2) Jsc under 0 V Jsc under -1 V Fig. 53 Device parameters of single-junction of μc-Si:H solar cells with different thicknesses of the n-a-Si buffer layers (Bai et al. 2015b) 746 Y. Zhao et al. signiﬁcant progress in μc-Si:H cell efﬁciency improvement. Table 9 lists some selected high efﬁciencies achieved by different institutes, and Fig. 54 shows the progress made by the community. The best single-junction μc-Si:H solar cell efﬁciency is 11.8% achieved by the AIST group with certiﬁed performance charac- teristics shown in Fig. 55 (Sai et al. 2015). A-Si:H and mc-Si:H Based Multijunction Solar Cell and Modules As discussed above, the advantage of μc-Si:H over a-Si:H and a-SiGe:H as the absorber layer in solar cells is the extended absorption spectrum to the long wave- length for high photocurrent. Using μc-Si:H as the middle and bottom cells in multijunction solar cells can absorb the sun light in a wide range and achieve high solar cell efﬁciency. Over the years, several multijunction solar cell structures have Table 9 The detail parameters of the highest efficiency single junction mc-Si:H solar cells Year Type Institute Voc (V) FF (%) Jsc (mAcm2) Eff. (%) 2006.03 p-i-n Utrecht 0.52 74.0 25.9 10 2006.05 p-i-n Juelich 0.568 71.3 25.5 10.3 2012.09 p-i-n EPFL 0.535 74.2 27.47 10.9 2013.05 p-i-n LGE 0.54 73.0 26.1 10.4 2015.06 p-i-n Delft 0.552 72.6 25.6 10.2 2014.12 p-i-n Nankai 0.552 71.76 26.6 10.54 2012.06 n-i-p Uni-solar 0.543 69.1 28.15 10.56 2014.10 n-i-p AIST 0.548 73.1 29.4 11.77 Note: Utrecht: (Gordijn et al. 2006); Juelich: (Mai et al. 2006); EPFL: (Bugnon et al. 2012); LGE: (Jung et al. 2014); Delft: (Tan et al. 2015); Nankai: (Zhang 2016); Uni-Solar: (Yue et al. 2012b); AIST: (Sai et al. 2015) 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 4 6 8 10 12 Nankai Juelich IMT EPFL pin-type nip-type Efficiency (%) Years (a.u.) PIN type NIP type Kaneka AIST IMT LGE Juelich Utrecht Delft United solar Juelich Fig. 54 The highest efﬁciency of p-i-n type and n- i-p type μc-Si:H single- junction solar cells achieved by different research institutions 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 747 been extensively studied. For example, Fig. 56 shows the commonly used n-i-p multijunction solar cells. The design and fabrication of multijunction solar cells are much more compli- cated than single-junction solar cells. First, additional attentions must be paid to the current matching because the Jsc of a multijunction solar cell takes the smallest photocurrent density among the individual component cells. A proper design, the component cell thicknesses, and selection of the bandgap of the absorber layers in each component cell should be optimized to give the desired current matching for the best stable efﬁciency. Second, the connections between individual component cells need to be optimized to minimize the losses at the connection because the top cell n-layer and the bottom cell p-layer form an opposite p-n junction with the main p-i-n junctions, where the current ﬂows through a tunneling and recombi- nation process; therefore, the junction there is called the tunnel-junction. A good tunnel-junction should have a minimum voltage loss for high Voc and a low resistance for good FF. Because these topics are more engineering, and the concept is similar to other multi-junction solar cells, we will not discuss the details here. But as expected the multijunction solar cells provide higher efﬁ- ciency than single-junction solar cells. As mentioned previously, the highest initial efﬁciency for thin ﬁlm silicon solar cells is 16.3% achieved using an a-Si: H/a-SiGe:H/μc-Si:H triple-junction structure with the J-V characteristics and EQE curves in Fig. 57 (Yan et al. 2011). Using an a-Si:H/μc-Si:H/μc-Si:H triple- junction structure, LG Solar have demonstrated an NREL conﬁrmed 13.44% stable efﬁciency with the results shown in Fig. 58 (Kim et al. 2013). The progress Fig. 55 JV curves of the highest efﬁciency μc-Si:H cell independently conﬁrmed by the CSM- RCPVT-AIST (Voc = 0.548 V, Jsc = 29.4 mA / cm2, FF = 0.731, Eff = 11.77%) (Sai et al. 2015) 748 Y. Zhao et al. of a-Si:H, a-SiGe:H and μc-Si:H multijunction solar cell efﬁciency made by the community is shown in Fig. 59. Although over 16% initial cell efﬁciencies have been achieved with both the n-i-p and p-i-n structures, the progress has been slowed down in recent years; especially the thin ﬁlm silicon photovoltaic industry has been signiﬁcantly shrunk. However, a remaining question for the thin ﬁlm community is whether the thin ﬁlm silicon solar cell efﬁciency has reached the light light grid ITO P ITO P ITO P P P P n P n P n P n P n n n n n n Stainless Steel Stainless Steel Stainless Steel Stainless Steel BR BR BR BR P n a-Si:H a-Si:H a-SiGe:H a-Si: H a-Si: H µc-Si:H µc-Si:H µc-Si:H µc-Si:H µc-Si:H a-Si:H grid light grid light grid Fig. 56 Schematics of n-i-p multijunction solar cells with μc-Si:H in the bottom cell -10 -8 -6 -4 -2 0 2 -0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 J (mA/cm2) Voltage (V) Voc=2.242 V FF=0.771 Jsc=9.43 mA/cm2 Eff=16.3% (a) 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0 300 500 700 900 1100 QE Wavelength (nm) 28.6 mA/cm2 9.44 9.43 9.73 (b) Fig. 57 (a) J-V characteristics and (b) EQE spectra of an a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/μc-Si:H triple-junction solar cell with an initial efﬁciency of 16.3% (Yan et al. 2011) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 749 upper limit. Simulation studies have shown that with quadruple structures, around 20% cell efﬁciencies could be attained (Isabella et al. 2014). a-Si:H and μc-Si:H multijunction solar cells have been also incorporated into production lines with increased module efﬁciency over a-Si:H and a-SiGe:H multi- junction product. Large area module efﬁciency has been steady improved. A stable large area (1.43 m2) efﬁciency of 12.34% has been achieved by TEL Solar and conﬁrmed by ESTI as shown in Fig. 60 (Cashmore et al. 2016). X25 IV System LG Electronics record solar cell 10 8 6 4 2 0 2 4 6 0.5 0.0 0.5 1.0 Voltage (V) Current (mA) 1.5 2.0 2.5 Triple junction: a-Si/μc-Si/μc-Si) Device ID: G41-2 Jul 30, 2021 10:36 Spectrum: ASTM G173 global Device Temperature: 24.9  0.5C Device Area: 1.006 cm2 Irradiance: 1000.0 W/m2 VOC = 1.9627 V Imax = 8.4657 mA Vmax = 1.5978 V Pmax = 13.527 mW Efficiency = 13.44% ISC = 9.5823 mA JSC = 9.5237 mA/cm2 Fill Factor = 71.92% Fig. 58 The established performance of the a-Si:H/μc-Si:H/μc-Si:H triple-junction solar cell after 1000 h light soaking. This new record was conﬁrmed by NREL (Kim et al. 2013) 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Nankai Jülich Jülich PIN type NIP type EPFL United Solar LGE Kaneta nip-type Efficiency (%) Years (a.u.) pin-type Fig. 59 The highest efﬁciency of a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/ μc-Si:H triple-junction solar cells achieved in different research institutions 750 Y. Zhao et al. Summary μc-Si:H is a unique material with nanometer sized crystallites embedded in amor- phous silicon tissues. The complex in the material structure provides a great platform for material studies with rich physics and chemistry in the material deposition, characterization, and device applications. Here we reviewed the material properties with the main focuses to address the major issues affecting the μc-Si:H solar cell performance and the approaches to resolve these problems. The key process parameter controlling the transition from a-Si:H to μc-Si:H is the hydrogen dilution. The μc-Si:H deposition needs a much higher hydrogen dilution than a-Si:H deposition. One of the interesting phenomena is the crystal- line evolution: the μc-Si:H deposition starts with an a-Si:H incubation layer, follows with crystallite seed formation, grows cone-structured crystallite aggre- gations, and increases the crystalline volume fraction with ﬁlm thickness. Such crystalline evolution with the ﬁlm thickness has a negative impact on solar cell performance. To resolve this issue, a hydrogen dilution proﬁle technique was invented with a very high hydrogen dilution to remove the a-Si:H incubation layer and growth μc-Si:H from the beginning, following a continually decreasing the hydrogen dilution to maintain a desired crystallinity distribution along the ﬁlm thickness. The hydrogen dilution proﬁling technique is proven to be an effective method for high efﬁciency μc-Si:H solar cell deposition. The similar result can also be obtained by changing other parameters such as the excitation power in PECVD deposition with a high power at the initial deposition to promote the crystalline formation and gradually reducing the power during the deposition to maintain the same crystallinity. μc-Si:H is more sensitive to impurity than a-Si:H especially to O. The tolerance for O in a-Si:H is in the level of 12  1019 cm3, but it is below 5  1018 cm3 in μc-Si:H. Fig. 60 Stabilized I-V curve and parameters of the record module (1.43 m2))made by TEL Solar and certiﬁed by ESTI (Cashmore et al. 2016) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 751 In addition, it is more sensitive to the normal doping elements of B and P. Therefore, a clean multichamber deposition system with pure gases is essential for high quality μc-Si:H materials and high efﬁciency solar cells. The O impurity can be compen- sated by adding a small amount of B called microdoping. However, the window of microdoping is narrow and difﬁcult to control. The impurities are not only incorporated during the deposition process, but also diffuse into the material after deposition and exposure to air for un-optimized μc-Si:H materials and solar cells, which cause the conductivity increase and solar cell efﬁciency decrease. To resolve the postdeposition impurity diffusion problem, one needs to optimize the process to deposit compact μc-Si:H materials to block the channel of impurity diffusion. Light trapping is an effective method to improve the photocurrent density of μc-Si:H solar cells, hence efﬁciency. The n-i-p structured solar cells use a back reﬂector to achieve the light trapping, while the p-i-n cells use textured TCO such as AZO and BZO. Using an optimized Ag/ZnO back reﬂector, the current gain can be as high as 60%. However, the textures of the substrates could cause a negative effect on the μc-Si:H structure and quality. To resolve this issue, electric ﬂat and optical textured back reﬂectors are invented. There is no conclusion whether a periodically structured back reﬂector is better than the randomly textured back reﬂector. Although some theories may provide a positive supporting, most high efﬁciency μc-Si:H based solar cells are made on randomly textured substrates. The high rate deposition is a bottleneck for reducing the a-Si:H and μc-Si:H based thin ﬁlm solar module production cost. The commonly used method for high rate deposition nowadays is VHF PECVD at the high power, high pressure depleting regime. The deposition rate could be in the range of 23 nm/s for good cell performance. Other techniques such as atmospheric VHF PECVD can make μc-Si: H at much high rate, but the scale-up to large area machine faces problems. After the over 20 years of fundamental research and technology development, μc-Si:H single-junction solar cell efﬁciency has been over 11%, multijunction cell over 16%, and stable module efﬁciency over 12%. With the dramatic reduction of c-Si solar module price in recent years, thin ﬁlm silicon PV product has lost the advantages in the market, especially in large scale utility level PV power station. However, the unique properties of the thin ﬁlm silicon PV product such as the ﬂexibility and light weight may keep the product in some niche market such as consumer electronic chargers, unmanned space vehicles and BIPV applications. Looking forward for improving the thin ﬁlm silicon cell and module efﬁciency, new materials and cells structures such as poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells and modules will be discussed in the next chapter. Acknowledgments The authors are grateful for the colleagues in the thin ﬁlm silicon PV com- munity. They have enjoyed very much for the collaborations with several institutions and sharing ideas and results through the international conferences such as the MRS, ICANS, IEEE-PVSEC, and EU-PVSEC. BY acknowledges the hospitality of the Nankai University. 752 Y. Zhao et al. References L. Bai, B. Liu, J. Zhao, et al., J. Appl. Phys. 117, 175309 (2015a) L. Bai, B. Liu, Q. Huang, et al., Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 140, 202 (2015b) J. Bailat, E. Vallat-Sauvain, L. Feitknecht, C. Droz, A. Shah, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 1219, 299302 (2002) J. Bailat, D. Dominé, R. Schlüchter, J. Steinhauser, S. Fay, F. Freitas, C. Bücher, L. Feitknecht, X. Niquille, T. Tscharner, A. Shah, C. Ballif, Proc. 4th World Conf. on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion (Hawaii, 2006), p. 1533 C. Battaglia, C.-M. Hsu, K. Söderström, J. Escarre, F.-J. Haug, M. Charriere, M. Boccard, M. Despeisse, D.T.L. Alexander, M. Cantoni, Y. Cui, C. Ballif, ACS Nano 6, 2790 (2012) M.H. Brodsky, M. Cardona, J.J. Cuomo, Phys. Rev. B 16, 3556 (1977) P. Buehlmann, J. Bailat, D. Domine, A. Billet, F. Meillaud, A. Feltrin, et al., Appl. Phys. Lett. 91, 143505 (2007) G. Bugnon, G. Parascandolo, T. Söderström, P. Cuony, M. Despeisse, S. Hänni, J. Holovský, F. Meillaud, C. Ballif, Adv. Funct. Mater. 22, 3665 (2012) G. Bugnon, G. Parascandolo, S. Hänni, et al., Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 120, 143 (2014) E. Bustarret, M.A. Hachicha, M. Brunel, Appl. Phys. Lett. 52, 1675 (1988) R. Carius, J. Folsch, D. Lundszien, L. Houben, F. Finger, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 507, 813 (1998) J.S. Cashmore, M. Apolloni, A. Braga, O. Caglar, V. Cervetto, Y. Fenner, S. Goldbach-Aschemann, C. Goury, J.E. Hötzel, T. Iwahashi, J. Kalas, M. Kitamura, M. Klindworth, M. Kupich, G.-F. Leu, J. Lin, M.-H. Lindic, P.A. Losio, T. Mates, D. Matsunaga, B. Mereu, X.-V. Nguyen, I. Psimoulis, S. Ristau, T. Roschek, A. Salabas, E.L. Salabas, I. Sinicco, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 144, 84 (2016) P. Chen, G. Hou, Q. Fan, J. Ni, J. Zhang, Q. Huang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhao, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 143, 435 (2015) Y.-B. Chung, D.-K. Lee, J.-S. Lim, N.-M. Hwang, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 95, 211 (2011) R.W. Collins, A.S. Ferlauto, G.M. Ferreira, C. Chen, J. Koh, R.J. Koval, Y. Lee, J.M. Pearce, C.R. Wronski, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 143 (2003) L.R. Dahal, J. Li, J.A. Stoke, Z. Huang, A. Shan, A.S. Ferlauto, C.R. Wronski, R.W. Collins, N.J. Podraza, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 129, 32 (2014) P. Debye, P. Scherrer, Physik. Z. 17, 277 (1916) C. Droz, E. Vallat-Sauvain, J. Bailat, L. Feitknecht, J. Meier, A. Shah, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 81, 61 (2004) T. Dylla, F. Finger, E.A. Schiff, Appl. Phys. Lett. 87, 032103 (2005) F. Finger, in Thin-Film Silicon Solar Cells, ed. by A. Shah (Ed), (EPFL Press, Lausanne, 2010) Chapter 3 M. Fukawa, S. Suzuki, L. Guo, M. Kondo, A. Matsuda, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 66, 217 (2001) G. Ganguly, T. Ikeda, T. Nishimiya, K. Saitoh, M. Kondo, A. Matsuda, Appl. Phys. Lett. 69, 4224 (1996) A. Gordijn, J.K. Rath, R.E.I. Schropp, Prog. in Photovoltaics: Res. and Appl 14, 305 (2006) Q. Gu, Q. Wang, E.A. Schiff, Y.-M. Liand, C.T. Malone, J. Appl. Phys. 76, 2310 (1994) L. Guo, M. Kondo, M. Fukawa, K. Saitoh, A. Matsuda, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 37, L1116 (1998) S. Guha, J. Yang, P. Nath, M. Hack, Appl. Phys. Lett. 49, 218 (1986) S. Guha, J. Yang, B. Yan, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 119, 1 (2013) X. Han, G. Hou, X. Zhang, C. Wei, G. Li, J. Zhang, X. Chen, D. Zhang, J. Sun, Y. Zhao, X. Geng, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 94, 254 (2010) Q. Huang, Y. Liu, S. Yang, Y. Zhao, X. Zhang, Solar Ener. Mater. & Sol. Cells 103, 134 (2012) G. Hou, J. Fang, Q. Fan, C. Wei, J. Ni, X. Zhang, Y. Zhao, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 134, 395 (2015) J. Hüpkes, H. Zhu, J.I. Owen, G. Jost, E. Bunte, Thin Solid Films 520, 1913 (2012) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 753 O. Isabella, A.H.M. Smets, M. Zeman, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 129, 82 (2014) Z. Iqbal, S. Veprek, J. Phys. C 15, 377 (1982) B. Janthong, A. Hongsingthong, T. Krajangsang, L. Zhang, P. Sichanugrist, M. Konagai, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 358, 2478 (2012) S.J. Jung, B.J. Kim, M. Shin, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 121, 1 (2014) H. Kakiuchi, H. Ohmi, K. Ouchi, K. Tabuchi, K. Yasutake, J. Appl. Phys. 106, 013521 (2009) S. Kasouit, S. Kumar, R. Vanderhaghen, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, I. French, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 113, 299302 (2002) S. Kim, J.-W. Chung, H. Lee, J. Park, Y. Heo, H.-M. Lee, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 119, 26 (2013) S. Klein, F. Finger, R. Carius, T. Dylla, B. Rech, M. Grimm, L. Houben, M. Stutzmann, Thin Solid Films 430, 202 (2003) J. Kocka, A. Fejfar, P. Fojtik, K. Luterova, I. Pelant, B. Rezek, H. Stuchlikova, J. Stuchlik, V. Svrcek, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 66, 61 (2001) J. Kocka, A. Fejfar, H. Stuchlıkova, J. Stuchlık, P. Fojtık, T. Mates, B. Rezek, K. Luterova, V. Svrcek, I. Pelant, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 493 (2003) S. Komuro, Y. Aoyagi, Y. Segawa, S. Namba, A. Masuyama, H. Okamoto, Y. Hamakawa, J. Appl. Phys. 55, 3866 (1984) M. Kondo, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 543 (2003) U. Kroll, J. Meier, P. Torres, J. Pohl, A. Shah, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 68, 227230 (1998) A. Lambertz, T. Grundler, F. Finger, J. Appl. Phy. 109, 113109 (2011) A. Lambertz, F. Finger, B. Holländer, J.K. Rath, R.E.I. Schropp, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 358, 1962 (2012) A. Lambertz, V. Smirnov, T. Merdzhanova, K. Ding, S. Haas, G. Jost, R.E.I. Schropp, F. Finger, U. Rau, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 119, 134 (2013) M. Ledinsky, L. Fekete, J. Stuchlik, T. Mates, A. Fejfar, J. Kocka, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 352, 1209 (2006) Y. Mai, S. Klein, R. Carius, et al., J. Non-Cryst. Solids 352, 1859 (2006) T. Matsui, M. Kondo, K. Ogata, T. Ozawa, M. Isomura, Appl. Phys. Lett. 89, 142115 (2006) T. Matsui, C.W. Chang, M. Kondo, K. Ogata, M. Isomura, Appl. Phys. Lett. 91, 10211 (2007) T. Matsui, C.W. Chang, T. Takada, M. Isomura, H. Fujiwara, M. Kondo, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 93, 1100 (2009) T. Matsui, M. Kondo, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 119, 156 (2013) J. Meier, R. Fluckiger, H. Keppner, A. Shah, Appl. Phys. Lett. 65, 860 (1994a) J. Meier, S. Dubail, R. Fluckiger, D. Fischer, H. Keppner, A. Shah, Proc. of 1st World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion (1994b), p. 409 J. Meier, P. Torres, R. Platz, S. Dubail, U. Kroll, J.A. Anna Selvan, N. Pellaton Vaucher, C. Hof, D. Fischer, H. Keppner, A. Shah, K.D. Ufert, P. Giannoulès, J. Koehler, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 420, 3 (1996) J. Meier, S. Dubail, J. Cuperus, U. Kroll, R. Platz, P. Torres, J.A.A. Selvan, P. Pernet, N. Beck, N.P. Vaucher, C. Hof, D. Fischer, H. Keppner, A. Shah, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 1250, 227230 (1998) J. Meier, S. Dubail, S. Golay, U. Kroll, S. Fay, E. Vallat-Sauvain, L. Feitknecht, J. Dubail, A. Shah, Sol. Ener. Mater. & Sol. Cells 74, 457 (2002) T. Merdzhanova, J. Woerdenweber, W. Beyer, T. Kilper, U. Zastrow, M. Meier, H. Stiebig, A. Gordijn, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 358, 2171 (2012) J. MuKller, O. Kluth, S. Wieder, H. Siekmann, G. Schope, W. Reetz, O. Vetterl, D. Lundszien, A. Lambertz, F. Finger, B. Rech, H. Wagner, Sol. Ener. Mater. & Sol. Cells 66, 275 (2001) J. Müller, G. Schöpea, O. Klutha, B. Recha, V. Sittingerb, B. Szyszkab, R. Geyerc, P. Lechnerc, H. Schadec, M. Rusked, G. Dittmare, H.-P. Bochemf, Thin Solid Films 442, 158 (2003) Y. Nasuno, M. Kondo, A. Matsuda, Japn. J. Appl. Phys. 40, 303 (2001) J. Ni, Q. Liu, J. Zhang, J. Ma, H. Wang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhao, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 126, 6 (2014) 754 Y. Zhao et al. S. Nicolay, M. Despeisse, F.-J. Haug, C. Ballif, Solar Ener. Mater. & Sol. Cells 95, 1031 (2011) C. Niikura, M. Kondo, A. Matsuda, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 42, 338340 (2004) C. Niikura, M. Kondo, A. Matsuda, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 90, 3223 (2006) A. Pawlikiewicz, S. Guha, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 118, 599 (1988) S. Pillai, K.R. Catchpole, T. Trupke, M.A. Green, J. Appl. Phys. 101, 093105 (2007) A. Poruba, A. Fejfar, Z. Remes, J. Springer, M. Vanecek, J. Kocka, J. Appl. Phys. 88, 148 (2000) M. Python, O. Madani, D. Domine, F. Meillaud, E. Vallat-Sauvain, C. Ballif, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 93, 1714 (2009) S. Ray, S. Mukhopadhyay, T. Jana, R. Carius, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 761, 299302 (2002) B. Rezek, J. Stuchlík, A. Fejfar, J. Kočka, J. Appl. Phys. 92, 587 (2002) Y. Sobajima, S. Nakano, T. Toyama, H. Okamoto, S. Omae, T. Minemoto, H. Takakura, Y. Hamakawa, J. Appl. Phys. 101, 103537 (2007) T. Roschek, T. Repmann, J. Müller, B. Rech, H. Wagner, Proc. of 28th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (IEEE, Anchorage, 2000), p. 150 H. Sai, H. Fujiwara, M. Kondo, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 93, 1087 (2009) H. Sai, Y. Kanamori, M. Kondo, Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 113502 (2011) H. Sai, K. Saito, M. Kondo, IEEE J. Photovoltaics 3, 5 (2012) H. Sai, K. Maejima, T. Matsui, T. Koida, M. Kondo, S. Nakao, Jap. J. Appl. Phys 54(8S1), 08KB05 (2015) A.V. Shah, J. Meier, E. Vallat-Sauvain, N. Wyrsch, U. Kroll, C. Droz, U. Graf, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 469 (2003) L. Sivec, B. Yan, G. Yue, J. Owens-Mawson, J. Yang, S. Guha, IEEE J. Photovoltaics 2, 27 (2012) V. Smirnov, A. Lambertz, B. Grootoonk, R. Carius, F. Finger, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 358, 1954 (2012) T. Söderström, F.-J. Haug, V. Terrazzoni-Daudrix, X. Niquille, M. Python, C. Ballif, J. Appl. Phys. 104, 104505 (2008) K. Söderströmn, G. Bugnon, F.-J. Haug, S. Nicolay, C. Ballif, Solar Ener. Mater. & Sol. Cells 101, 193 (2012a) K. Söderströmn, G. Bugnon, R. Biron, C. Pahud, F. Meillaud, F.-J. Haug, C. Ballif, J. Appl. Phys. 112, 114503 (2012b) P. Spinelli, V. E. Ferry, J. van de Groep, M. van Lare, M. A. Verschuuren, R. E. I. Schropp, .H. A. Atwater, and A. Polman, J. Opt. 14, 024002 (2012) R.A. Street, Appl. Phys. Lett. 59, 1084 (1991) C. Strobel, B. Leszczynska, U. Merkel, J. Kuske, D.D. Fischer, M. Albert, J. Holovský, S. Michard, J.W. Bartha, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 143, 347 (2015) H. Tan, L. Sivec, B. Yan, R. Santbergen, M. Zeman, A.H.M. Smets, App. Phys. Lett. 102, 153902 (2013) H. Tan, E. Moulin, F.T. Si, et al., Progr. in Photovoltaics: Res. and Appl. 23, 949 (2015) Y. Tawada, K. Tsuge, M. Kondo, H. Okamoto, Y. Hamakawa, J. Appl. Phys. 53, 5273 (1982) A. Terakawa, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 119, 204 (2013) P. Torres, J. Meier, R. Fluckiger, U. Kroll, J.A.A. Selvan, H. Keppner, A. Shah, S.D. Littlewood, I.E. Kelly, P. Giannoules, Appl. Phys. Lett. 69, 1373 (1996) R. Tsu, J. Gonzalez-Hernandez, S.S. Chao, S.C. Lee, K. Tanaka, Appl. Phys. Lett. 40, 534 (1982) S. Usui, K. Kikuchi, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 34, 1 (1979) E. Vallat-Sauvain, C. Droz, F. Meillaud, J. Bailat, A. Shah, C. Ballif, J. Non-Crystal. Solids 352, 1200 (2006a) E. Vallat-Sauvain, A. Shah, J. Bailat, Advances in microcrystalline silicon solar cell technologies (Wiley, Chichester, 2006b), pp. 133171 O. Vetterl, F. Finger, R. Carius, P. Hapke, L. Houben, O. Kluth, A. Lambertz, A. Mück, B. Rech, H. Wagner, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 62, 97 (2000) O. Vetterl, M. Hulsbeck, J. Wolff, R. Carius, F. Finger, Thin Solid Films 427, 46 (2003) S. Veprek, V. Marecek, Solid State Electron. 11, 683 (1968) O. Vettea, A. Groß, T. Jana, S. Ray, A. Lambertz, R. Carius, F. Finger, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 772, 299302 (2002) 21 Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films 755 D.L. Williamson, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 78, 41 (2003) J. Woerdenweber, T. Merdzhanova, T. Zimmermann, A.J. Flikweert, H. Stiebig, W. Beyer, A. Gordijn, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 358, 2183 (2012) K. Yamamoto, A. Nakajima, M. Yoshimi, et al., Prog. in Photovoltaics: Res. and Appl. 13, 489 (2005) B. Yan, K. Lord, J. Yang, S. Guha, J. Smeets, J.-M. Jacquet, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 715, 629 (2002) B. Yan, G. Yue, J. Yang, S. Guha, D.L. Williamson, D. Han, C.-S. Jiang, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 808, 575 (2004a) B. Yan, G. Yue, J. Yang, S. Guha, D.L. Williamson, D. Han, C.-S. Jiang, Appl. Phys. Lett. 85, 1955 (2004b) B. Yan, G. Yue, J.M. Owens, J. Yang, S. Guha, Appl. Phys. Lett. 85, 1925 (2004c) B. Yan, C.-S. Jiang, C.W. Teplin, H.R. Moutinho, M.M. Al-Jassim, J. Yang, S. Guha, J. Appl. Phys. 101, 033712 (2007) B. Yan, G. Yue, L. Sivec, J. Yang, S. Guha, C.-S. Jiang, Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 113512 (2011) B. Yan, G. Yue, L. Sivec, J. Owens-Mawson, J. Yang, S. Guha, Sol. Ener. Mater. & Sol. Cells 104, 13 (2012) B. Yan, G. Yue, J. Yang, S. Guha, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 111, 90 (2013) L. Yang, L. Chen, J.Y. Hou, Y.M. Li, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 258, 365 (1992) J. Yang, A. Banerjee, S. Guha, Appl. Phys. Lett. 70, 2975 (1997) J. Yang, K. Lord, B. Yan, A. Banerjee, S. Guha, Proc. of 29th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (IEEE, New Orleans, 2002), p. 1094 G. Yue, B. Yan, J. Yang, S. Guha, Appl. Phys. Lett. 86, 092103 (2005) G. Yue, B. Yan, G. Ganguly, J. Yang, S. Guha, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 910, 29 (2006a) G. Yue, B. Yan, G. Ganguly, J. Yang, S. Guha, C. Teplin, Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 263507 (2006b) G. Yue, B. Yan, G. Ganguly, J. Yang, S. Guha, J. Mater. Res. 22, 1128 (2007) G. Yue, B. Yan, C.W. Teplin, J. Yang, S. Guha, J. Non-Crystal Solids 354, 2440 (2008) G. Yue, B. Yan, L. Sivec, T. Su, Y. Zhou, J. Yang, S. Guha, Mater. Res. Soc. Symp. Proc. 1426, 33 (2012a) G. Yue, B. Yan, L. Sivec, Y. Zhou, J. Yang, S. Guha, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 104, 109 (2012b) X. Zhang, G. Wang, X. Zheng, C. Wei, X. Geng, S. Xiong, Y. Zhao, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 95, 2448 (2011) X. Zhang, In OSA Light Energy Nanostructures and Advanced Materials for Photovoltaics (PV), Leipzig (2016) 756 Y. Zhao et al. Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 22 Fengzhen Liu and Yurong Zhou Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 758 Growth Technology of Poly-Si Thin Film ...................................................... 760 Solid Phase Crystallization (SPC) ........................................................... 761 Liquid Phase Crystallization (LPC) ......................................................... 764 Vapor Phase Deposition (VPD) ............................................................. 766 Seed Layer and Transfer Technology for Poly-Si Thin Film Solar Cells ...................... 773 Seed Layer Techniques ...................................................................... 773 Lift-Off and Transfer of Poly-Si Thin Films ................................................ 774 Light Trapping Technology for Poly-Si Thin Film Solar Cells ................................ 775 Quality Characterization of Poly-Si Thin Films ................................................ 780 Poly-Si Thin Film Solar Cells ................................................................... 784 Conclusions ...................................................................................... 786 Cross-References ................................................................................ 787 References ....................................................................................... 787 Abstract By eliminating the costly steps of Si wafer, polycrystalline silicon (poly-Si) thin ﬁlm solar cells become the very promising candidates for cost-effective photo- voltaics in the future. In order to maintain the high efﬁciency character of crystalline silicon (c-Si) wafer-based solar cells, competitive material qualities and appropriate device structures are required for poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells on F. Liu (*) College of Materials Science and Opto-Electronic Technology, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China e-mail: liufz@ucas.ac.cn Y. Zhou University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China e-mail: zhouyurong@ucas.ac.cn  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_29 757 inexpensive substrates. Low cost fabrication processes are also demanded from the point of view of industrial production. In the past few decades, a wide variety of poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cell approaches have been investigated to improve device performance and to identify suitable technology to boost poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells towards competitive photovoltaic devices. The efﬁciencies of poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells increase gradually. However, they are still much lower than that of c-Si solar cells or other compound semiconductor thin ﬁlm solar cells. More efforts are needed in the future. This chapter reviews the technological and scientiﬁc developments in the ﬁeld of poly-Si thin ﬁlms and solar cells. After an introduction, basic knowledge involved in the fabrication of poly-Si thin ﬁlms is presented in the ﬁrst part. In the second part, seed layer and transfer techniques for poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells are described. In the third part, suitable light trapping technology is discussed. In the fourth part, material characterization techniques and properties of poly-Si thin ﬁlms are shown. In the ﬁnal part, the developing status of poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells is summarized. Keywords Poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cell  Solid phase crystallization  Aluminum induced crystallization  Liquid phase crystallization  Epitaxial growth  Seed layer  Lift- off and transfer  Light trapping structure Introduction The worldwide PV market is dominated by wafer-based silicon solar cells using either single crystalline or poly-crystalline silicon. However, fabrication of Si feedstock materials and crystalline growth of silicon ingots are both costly and energy intensive steps (Chaps. 3, Siemens Process, 4, Fluidized Bed Process with Silane, 5, Upgrade Metallurgical Grade Silicon, 8, Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method, 7, Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method, 9, Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method, 10, Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Cruci- ble Method, and 6, Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si). In addition, the wafer sawing process suffers from high material losses (Chap. 11, Wafer Processing). Therefore, material costs have been shown to contribute over one third of total module costs in the conventional PV solar cells. Methods for puriﬁcation of silicon materials have been improved. Many poly-Si production plants have been constructed and ramped up. Therefore, the feedstock shortage regime for the PV industry, appeared 10 years ago, may not happen again. However, considering the total consumption of materials and long term develop- ment, reducing the amount of Si material used in the solar cells is an inevitable direction. 758 F. Liu and Y. Zhou With the development of the slicing technology, typical thickness of Si wafer has been reduced to 140180 μm (Chap. 11, Wafer Processing). However, still far more Si is used than is actually required for light absorption in the solar cells. The excess Si leads to excess recombination of photo generated carriers and restricts open circuit voltage (Voc) of the solar cells. In addition, it is hard to avoid kerf loss in the commercial slicing process, e.g., multiwire ﬁxed abrasives slicing technology (Chap. 11, Wafer Processing). Wire cost and wire breakage together with the postsawing surface treatment are all challenges. Some approaches have been suggested as ways to reduce the consumption of Si materials in the module. SLiM-Cut lift off based on reorganization of porous silicon and kerf less approach based on implant-cleaving are both attractive techniques. However, since the silicon ingot comes from energy consumption process, the production cost still needs to be demonstrated. Furthermore, a technical challenge exists in handling the thin Si wafer (50 μm) all the way through solar cells fabrication and modules formation. So, what is needed is a completely different approach to manufacture the Si and to reduce the cost. Solar cells based on amorphous silicon (a-Si) are the well-known approaches to reduce the materials consumption and the overall cost (Chaps. 20, Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film, and 21, Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films). However, a-Si solar cells have not yet been able to perform in terms of efﬁciency as well as c-Si wafer solar cells. Therefore, to obtain crystallized Si thin ﬁlms on low-cost substrates through bottom-up approaches could be a good compro- mise. In this case, an unavoidable issue is the inadequate light absorption related to the inherent indirect band gap of c-Si. This problem can be well solved from the perspec- tive of Photonics. When an absorber surface is ideally rough, optical path length in the absorber can be enhanced by a factor of 4n2 compared with a ﬂat surface, where n is the refractive index of the absorber ﬁlm. The 4n2 enhancement is well known as the Lambertian limit or the Yablonovitch limit. For Si with n of 3.5, the wafer thickness can be reduced from the current 100300 μm to a few micrometers in the case that this limit can be followed through optimization of the light trapping structure, as Wang et al. (2012) illuminates. And many researchers have been making efforts to overcome the Lambertian limit. Texturing c-Si surfaces at the light wavelength scale and using plasmonic nanostructures are both possible approaches. Based on optimized light trapping structures, a short circuit current density (Jsc) as high as 38 mA/cm2 was predicted by Hsu et al. (2016) on a 10-μm-thick crystalline silicon absorber. Excellent results have already been obtained on ultrathin silicon substrates with the thickness of 1040 μm (Kapur et al. 2013; Branham et al. 2015; Han et al. 2014). Conversion efﬁciencies above 20% have been achieved for a 40-μm-thick back contact mono-crystalline silicon solar cell by Kapur et al. (2013). Based on silicon- on-insulator (SOI) wafer, conversion efﬁciencies 15% have been realized by Branham et al. (2015) on nano-textured 10 μm mono-crystalline silicon absorber. These remarkable research works demonstrate the feasibility of using much less silicon than the conventional silicon wafer in the solar cells. However, mono-crystalline silicon wafer or silicon-on-insulator technology was used, which is irrelevant to low-cost PV. 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 759 In the long term, poly-Si thin ﬁlm technology, as a bottom-up approach, could be a prospective low-cost and highly efﬁcient solar cell approach. The hot Si melt process of Si wafer can be avoided and the cost can be much reduced. The handling problem can also be well solved through the application of inexpensive substrates. In the past few decades, some cost-effective poly-Si thin ﬁlm fabrication methods have been investigated including thermal solid phase crystallization (SPC), liquid phase crystallization (LPC) by laser or electron beam, and high or low temperature epitaxial growth from vapor phase, etc. For SPC and LPC technologies, poly-Si thin ﬁlms can be formed on low-cost foreign substrates directly. For epitaxial growth of c-Si thin ﬁlm, a large-grained seed layer is needed to promote the crystallization. If epitaxial growth happens on a c-Si wafer, transferring of the epitaxial layer is required. According to these techniques, many research works have been carrying out. A common goal of these approaches is to achieve competitive electronic properties as c-Si wafer. In this chapter, a review of recent technological and scientiﬁc developments in the ﬁeld of poly-Si thin ﬁlms and solar cells is presented. In the ﬁrst part of this chapter, basic knowledge about the poly-Si thin ﬁlm fabrication techniques is described. This is the main part of this chapter. The techniques what we are concerned about here are those that can obtain poly-Si thin ﬁlm directly by gas phase deposition or by the combination of gas phase deposition and subsequent crystallization processing. So, liquid epitaxial growth from melt is excluded. In the second part of this chapter, seed layer formation and transfer technique involved in the poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells fabrication are discussed. In the third part of this chapter, research studies on light trapping structures related to the poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells are presented. In the fourth part, characterization methods of poly-Si thin ﬁlms are described. Since most characterization and analysis methods of poly-Si thin ﬁlms are similar to those of poly-Si wafer, this part will be very brief. The main properties of the poly-Si thin ﬁlms according to different fabrication methods are summarized here. In the ﬁnal part, the status of the poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells based on different approaches is summarized. Growth Technology of Poly-Si Thin Film In the past four to ﬁve decades, many techniques have been invented and developed to fabricate poly-Si thin ﬁlms and devices from gas phase. According to the crystallization process, the preparation methods of poly-Si thin ﬁlms can usually be classiﬁed into three types: solid phase crystallization, liquid phase crystallization, and vapor phase epitaxial growth. In the stage of 1970s and 1980s of last century, solid phase crystallization and high temperature vapor phase epitaxy were dominant techniques. After that, liquid phase crystallization and vapor phase epitaxy at low temperature have been developed gradually. 760 F. Liu and Y. Zhou Solid Phase Crystallization (SPC) Solid phase crystallization means crystallization of amorphous phase happens in the solid phase. The crystallization can be caused directly by heating or can be promoted by means of a medium. In the literature, solid phase crystallization usually refers only to an annealing based SPC or thermal SPC. Solid phase crystallization induced by medium (usually metal) is named as metal-induced crystallization (MIC). Thermal SPC Thermal SPC (or SPC based on annealing) is a simple technique to obtain crystal- lized Si thin ﬁlm. The crystallization is based on the thermal annealing of an a-Si thin ﬁlm. For example, the a-Si thin ﬁlm or layer stack (with different doping types) with certain thickness is ﬁrst deposited by plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) at low substrate temperature. Then, the a-Si ﬁlm or layer stack goes through thermal treatment at a moderate temperature (around 600 C) in a N2 atmosphere. Inexpensive substrates like glass can be used under such temperature. However, the crystallization process often lasts for several or above 10 h. The as-crystallized Si thin ﬁlm by SPC is usually in a poly-Si status with randomly oriented grains. If textured substrates are used, light trapping structure can be formed on the Si thin ﬁlm layer directly. Based on the amorphous Si stack deposition, p-n homo-junction structure can be obtained after the SPC. The thermal SPC process is schematically described in Fig. 1. During the annealing process, possible diffusion of impurities into the crystallized silicon bulk needs to be prohibited by using high quality substrates or block barrier layers. Due to the high cost of pure substrates with high quality, diffusion barriers (e.g., SiNx) are commonly preferred as a solution. The SiNx ﬁlm can also act as an antireﬂection coating for the SPC poly-Si solar cell in a superstrate conﬁguration. Difference in the thermal expansion coefﬁcients between the silicon bulk and the substrate needs to be considered to avoid cracking and ﬂaking during the thermal treatment. After SPC, a rapid thermal anneal (RTA) process in N2 atmosphere is often carried out to remove crystallographic defects from the SPC poly-Si thin ﬁlms and to activate the dopants. A SiOx capping layer is usually deposited onto the a-Si thin ﬁlms Fig. 1 The schematic of thermal SPC process. (Reprinted with permission from Kumar et al. 2015) 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 761 before the SPC process. The SiOx layer can act as a barrier for impurities from the ambient during the SPC and the subsequent RTA process (Kumar et al. 2015). Annealing time, crystallization temperature and substrate situation together determine the nucleation and growth process and the ﬁnal grain size. The grain size of the SPC poly-Si thin ﬁlms could vary from 2 μm to 15 μm. Stress and intra-grain mis-orientations exist in the SPC poly-Si thin ﬁlms. The SPC poly-Si usually contains many deep level intra-grain defects and grain-boundary defects. The intra-grain defects and dislocations in the ﬁlms limit the electrical properties of SPC poly-Si thin ﬁlms. Postcrystallization treatment and hydrogen passivation technique are needed to meet the requirement of the photovoltaic applications. Although the structure and electronic property of SPC poly-Si thin ﬁlms mainly depend on the postdeposition treatments, deposition parameters of a-Si also have effects on the poly-Si thin ﬁlms. Kumar et al. (2015) found that for the hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H) ﬁlms deposited by PECVD (Chap. 20, Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film), both deposition temperature and gas ﬂow ratio have inﬂuence on the stress and intra-grain mis-orientation in the SPC poly-Si thin ﬁlms. They demonstrated that an increase in the substrate temperature of the a-Si:H thin ﬁlms deposited by PECVD leads to a signiﬁcant improvement in the property of the SPC poly-Si thin ﬁlms. Solid phase crystallization had been matured to industrial production. CSG Solar was the only company that had produced poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells on glass on industrial scale. Relying on the technology of thermal SPC poly-Si thin ﬁlms on glass substrate, a module efﬁciency of 10.4% was demonstrated on a textured borosilicate glass with an area of 10  10 cm2 by CSG in year 2007 (Keevers et al. 2007). The technological drawbacks of SPC could lie in the long annealing time of usually more than 10 h and the moderate quality of the poly-Si thin ﬁlms with random oriented grains and high density defects. Metal-Induced Crystallization (MIC) Metal-induced crystallization is also a kind of solid phase crystallization technique. Presence of the metal ﬁlms lowers the crystallization temperature of the a-Si thin ﬁlms. The metals that lower the crystallization temperature the most are Pt, Ni, Pd, Ag, Cu, Al, and Au (Knaepen et al. 2008). According to the reaction between metal and Si, two models for MIC process were proposed, as described by Knaepen et al. (2008). One is eutectic reacting, the other is compound formation. For eutectic reacting metals (e.g., Al, Au, Ag), Si atoms diffuse into the metal ﬁlm during heating and ﬁnd some preferred nucleation sites at the metal grain boundaries. With the supply of Si atoms, the Si crystal nuclei grow up, contact, and ﬁnally form a continuous poly-Si thin ﬁlm. In this case, the MIC process is limited by the solubility and diffusion of Si atoms in the metal ﬁlm. For compound-forming metals (e.g., Ni, Cu, Pt, Pd), crystallization occurs after the formation of a silicide phase. The main diffusion element, could be either metal or Si, diffuses through the silicide layer and promote the crystallization. In a dissociative model, the silicide forms at the silicide/a-Si 762 F. Liu and Y. Zhou edge and dissociates at the silicide/poly-Si edge. The main diffusing element is the metal. In a nondissociative model, Si is the main diffusing element and the silicide serves as a transport layer for Si atoms. The most commonly used metal for MIC poly-Si thin ﬁlms is aluminum. Crystalline silicon grains with the size larger than 20 μm can be achieved using aluminum-induced crystallization (AIC). AIC poly-Si thin ﬁlms have gained considerable attention in photovoltaics. The schematic of AIC process is depicted in Fig. 2. An aluminum layer with certain thickness (dozens to several hundred nanometers) is ﬁrst deposited onto the substrate (e.g., glass) before the a-Si thin ﬁlm deposition. Then, the Al/a-Si double layers, usually separated by a thin native oxide layer, are thermally treated at a moderate temperature for certain time (usually 14 h). With the Al element moving up to the top of the double layer, crystallization of the silicon happens simultaneously. The temperature and duration of the thermal annealing process and the thicknesses of aluminum and a-Si layers are all played important roles in the poly-Si quality. The typical annealing temperature is 400500 C and the grain sizes are ranging from 10 μm to 30 μm. Due to the advantages of large grain size and simple process, AIC of a-Si is usually considered to be an economical seed layer technique in poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells. Large-grained poly-Si absorber layers on inexpensive substrates have been achieved by combining AIC poly-Si seed layer with high temperature epitaxial growth of Si thin ﬁlm. In the early stage, grain size enlargement of AIC poly-Si was thought to be the most important parameter to improve material quality and therefore solar cell performance. Later, electrically active defects were considered as the main reason to limit the structural characteristics and electrical properties of poly-Si layers based on AIC and epitaxial growth. The AIC seed layer has a crucial impact on the formation of a high density of intra-grain defect. So, increasing the intra-grain quality is essentially important to improve the material quality and hence device performance. Plasma hydrogenation treating is helpful to passivate the defects and increase the effective diffusion length of carriers in the poly-Si layer. For example, by using high-temperature remote plasma hydrogenation, an efﬁciency of 8.54% was achieved by Qiu et al. (2014) on a poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cell with a 2-μm thick absorption layer (AIC seed layer + thermal epitaxial growth at 1130 C) and a heterojunction a-Si emitter. Further efforts are needed to understand the role of hydrogen and to improve the ﬁlm quality. Al deposition Al oxidation a-Si deposition after thermal annealing Fig. 2 The schematic of AIC process 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 763 Liquid Phase Crystallization (LPC) In the early 1990s, liquid phase epitaxy technology was investigated to obtain epitaxial growth of c-Si thin ﬁlm from Si/metal (Cu, In, or Ga) melt. Epitaxial c-Si ﬁlms with thickness of 550 μm can be achieved on Si substrate. Such liquid phase epitaxy is based on melt but not on gas phase deposition. So, it will not be reviewed here. As early as 1979, Schwarzschild (1979) reported on Physics Today a successful growth of oriented crystalline Si by the MIT Lincoln laboratory group. The oriented crystalline Si was realized from a-Si using laser LPC with the aid of a man-made structure with long range order. This research work opened a broad new range of possibilities for the production of microelectronic devices and solar cells. The above LPC is such a technique that energy sources are line-focused into the amorphous or nano-crystalline silicon layer (with the thickness of 540 μm) and heat up the silicon above the melting point of 1414 C. The energy sources could be laser, electron- beam, or halogen-lamps. According to the literatures, laser is the most commonly used energy source. During the scan, the molten silicon layer re-crystallizes along the scanning direction into large-grained poly-Si. And the crystallization time of LPC is usually several seconds. Therefore, the production time and thermal budget can be greatly reduced compared with SPC and AIC. The LPC process is schematically depicted in Fig. 3. Before the Si thin ﬁlm deposition, a dielectric interlayer is usually deposited on the glass substrate ﬁrst. During the crystallization process, the dielectric layer acts as diffusion barrier against impurities from the glass and may prevent dewetting of the silicon. Some dielectric materials can also passivate the interface between the LPC poly-Si absorber and the substrate because of chemical as well as ﬁeld-effect passivation effects. Moreover, the interlayer can function as antireﬂection coating when illuminating the solar cell in superstrate conﬁguration. So far, aluminum oxide (Al3O2), silicon oxide (SiOx), Fig. 3 The schematic of LPC process 764 F. Liu and Y. Zhou silicon nitride (SiNx), silicon oxynitride (SiOxNy), silicon carbide (SiCx), or their stacks were ever used as interlayer in LPC poly-Si solar cells. Recently, the signif- icant improvements in conversion efﬁciencies of LPC poly-Si solar cells made by Preissler et al. (2017a) are to a great extent due to the carefully optimized dielectric layers. They successfully developed PECVD-grown SiOx/SiNx/SiOx stack to achieve crystallization without prior annealing. Nitrogen-rich SiNx layer in the stack was proved to be beneﬁcial to achieve adhesion and avoid delamination during the crystallization. A major advantage of LPC is the fact that the deposition conditions of a-Si are decoupled from the electronic quality of the poly-Si layer. The quality of LPC-Si is mainly determined by the crystallization process. So, the deposition technique and growth rate of a-Si are not critical. Simple deposition technique and high deposition rate are feasible. Either physical vapor deposition (PVD) or chemical vapor deposi- tion (CVD) can be used to deposit a-Si ﬁlm. If the a-Si thin ﬁlm is deposited by PECVD, moderate temperature annealing (450 C  650 C) needs to be carried out before the LPC process to effuse the hydrogen (Chap. 20, Hydrogenated Amor- phous Silicon Thin Film). The a-Si thin ﬁlm can be crystallized in ambient atmosphere or in vacuum by sweeping a line-shaped energy source across the surface. A moderate substrate temperature (600 C) is usually set to preheat the silicon thin ﬁlm. Both scanning velocity and intensity of the energy source exhibit inﬂuence on the microstructure (grain size, grain orientation, and type of grain boundaries) of the crystallized Si. The scanning speed shows greater impact on ﬁlm quality. A scanning speed of 23 mm/s is usually used during the motion of the line-shaped energy sources. However, during the cooling down from silicon melting temperature to preheating temperature, cracking may occur. High temperature gradients within the sample cause large thermal stresses. And then cracking may happen in the crystallized silicon. Slowing down the scanning speed is beneﬁcial to reduce the thermal stresses within the sample. Doping of the LPC-Si layer can be well controlled by predeposition doped a-Si thin layer (80 nm) on the main Si layer. During the crystallization, dopant atoms from the doping layer distribute homogeneously throughout the poly-Si absorber. Doping concentration in the order of 1016 cm3  1017 cm3 can be obtained. Both n-type and p-type poly-Si absorbers can be achieved. A SiOx capping layer is often deposited on top of the Si ﬁlm to enhance the absorption of the laser power and enlarge grain size of the ﬁlm. After LPC, stresses from the glass can be relieved by a subsequent RTA process. Like SPC poly-Si or AIC seeded poly-Si, plasma hydrogenation treating is commonly performed to passivate the defects in the LPC poly-Si absorbers. Both the process temperature and duration of hydrogen plasma and the interlayer material sequence play important roles in the effectiveness of passivation. Hydrogen atoms in the interlayer and from the plasma may diffuse into the LPC poly-Si absorber and passivate silicon dangling bonds. Signiﬁcant improvement in the solar cell perfor- mance (mainly for n-type LPC poly-Si bulk) can be achieved by using hydrogen plasma treatment (Preissler et al. 2017). 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 765 Since the grains are grown from silicon melt, they can grow up to centimeters in length and millimeters in width for LPC poly-Si. With appropriate laser power density to completely melt the entire ﬁlm, large linear grains grown parallel to the laser scan direction can be achieved. A wafer-like electronic quality might be maintained. For example, Hall mobility up to 530  80 cm2/Vs can be successfully achieved (Sonntag et al. 2017). Compared with SPC poly-Si, grain size and electrical quality of LPC poly-Si are signiﬁcantly increased. The crystallization time of LPC poly-Si is shortened from at least 10 h for SPC poly-Si down to only several seconds. The thermal budge is greatly reduced. Due to the feature of large grain and cost effective process, LPC has been considered to be the highest potential approaches for poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells in industrial production (Becker et al. 2013). Addition- ally, on account of the feature of large grain size, the LPC poly-Si can also serve as a seed layer for further epitaxial thickening. In recent years, LPC poly-Si solar cells on low cost substrates (e.g., glass) have been paid more and more attention. The solar cell performance is improved contin- uously. Based on an interdigitated back-contact (IBC) system featuring an a-Si:H/c-Si heterojunction (SHJ), a power conversion efﬁciency of 13.2% was recently demon- strated by Paul Sonntag et al. (2017) on 13 μm LPC absorbers on glass. Vapor Phase Deposition (VPD) Silicon vapor phase epitaxial growth has been studied since the early 1950s. Initially, high temperature processes (1000 C) were preferred to guarantee epitaxial layers with sufﬁcient quality. Later, moderate and low temperature epitaxial growth grad- ually gained more and more attention. Recently, poly-Si thin ﬁlm can also be obtained by physical vapor deposition. Different vapor phase deposition methods for poly-Si solar cells will be described in turn. High Temperature Vapor Phase Epitaxy Atmospheric pressure chemical vapor deposition (APCVD) and low pressure chem- ical vapor deposition (LPCVD) are the conventional high temperature homo-epitaxy techniques in semiconductor industry. Before epitaxial growth, the silicon surface can be well cleaned by volatizing contaminants under elevated temperatures. Then, reactant gases (SiH4, SiCl4, SiHCl3, or SiH2Cl2) are thermal decomposed and/or reduced under high temperature (1000 C). Thermal activation helps incoming radicals to settle in crystalline sites. Therefore, crystal growth with high quality can be achieved. Typical growth rate of 310 μm/min can be realized. The doping concentration proﬁle and the accurate layer thickness can be well deﬁned. High temperature vapor phase epitaxy has already been successfully im- plemented in bipolar transistor and other advanced integrated circuits processes. And producing high quality poly-Si thin ﬁlms or even silicon wafers by high throughput vapor phase epitaxial growth has long been pursued to reduce the manufacturing cost of c-Si photovoltaics. However, the high substrate temperature character makes it incompatible with low cost substrates. As a result, the epitaxy 766 F. Liu and Y. Zhou substrates are usually limited to silicon sheets, metallurgical silicon, and porous silicon (usually combined with a layer transfer technology) in poly-Si thin ﬁlm photovoltaic application. Furthermore, unintentional doping and impurity diffusion may occur at high temperatures, which are harmful to the quality of the epitaxial layer and the device properties gained by earlier processing steps. Therefore, a high quality epitaxy substrate and a carefully selected and optimized fabrication process sequence are both critical important. Porous Si is the most commonly used substrate for high temperature vapor phase epitaxy of poly-Si thin ﬁlm. Conversion efﬁciency above 19% can be achieved on the free-standing high temperature epitaxial Si layers with the thickness less than 50 μm by using the porous silicon layer transfer process (Petermann et al. 2012). However, handling and processing of the free-standing silicon with thickness below 50 μm are very challenging as they are highly ﬂexible and fragile. And the stresses and microcracks arising during the interconnection of the ultra thin silicon solar cells may lead to reduced reliability and operational lifetime of solar modules. To make the process ﬂow to module-level processing, the ultra thin silicon solar cells are usually bonded onto low cost mechanical carriers. Of cause, bonding technology will also face new challenges. Light absorption losses, conductive conditions, contamination risks, and industrial applicability related to the bonding agent need to be considered. To minimize the negative impact of bonding on the solar cell performance, the bonding glue type, the bonding process, and the whole solar cell fabrication process sequence need to be carefully optimized according to the speciﬁc solar cell structure. Conversion efﬁciencies of 1517% have been obtained for solar cells on epitaxial Si foils bonded on different substrates, such as low-cost Si, glass, steel. Very recently, based on the integrated interconnect-module (i2-module) concept, IMEC (Radhakrishnan et al. 2017) reported the results on high temperature vapor phase epitaxy poly-Si solar cells bonded to glass. Epitaxial layers with a thickness of 50 μm and lifetime of 30 μs (injection level of 1015 cm3) were grown on parent substrates with a sacriﬁcial porous silicon seed layer at 1130 C in a CVD reactor. The epitaxial layers were lifted off from the parent substrate using the porous silicon as the detachment layer and layer-transferred and bonded onto module glass using ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA) sheets for further processing. A heterojunction inter- digitated back-contact (HJ-IBC) technology based on a-Si:H and IBC solar cell process was adopted to fabricate the devices. According to their process sequence implemented in their work, the thin Si foil is mechanically supported throughout the solar cell processing and interconnection stages, thus enabling high mechanical yield during the device processing. A best solar cell efﬁciency of 16.1% was obtained. Moderate or Low Temperature Vapor Phase Epitaxy The vapor phase epitaxy approaches discussed above involve high temperature processes in excess of 1000 C. This temperature limits the type of substrates. Moderate or low temperature epitaxial growth of thin ﬁlm crystalline silicon has always been a pursuing goal in microelectronics and also in large area electronics. It has the well-known advantages. For example, thermal problems such as inter-diffusion 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 767 between doped layers and auto-doping effects can be overcome. And the structure and fabrication process of the devices could therefore be very ﬂexible. Silicon homo-epitaxy under low temperature has been demonstrated by many deposition techniques including molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) (Eaglesham 1995), ion-assisted deposition (IAD) (Nerding et al. 2003), electron-cyclotron resonance chemical vapor deposition (ECR-CVD) (Rau et al. 2004), hot-wire chemical vapor deposition (HWCVD) (Mason et al. 2003), and PECVD (Morenoa and Cabarrocas 2010). Considering the degree of the difﬁculty to scale to large-area deposition for PV application, only HWCVD and PECVD techniques will be reviewed here. Hot Wire Chemical Vapor Deposition (HWCVD) HWCVD, or catalytic chemical vapor deposition, is a conventional technique for Si thin ﬁlms deposition. Compared with PECVD, HWCVD could be considered as a relatively new deposition technology that has shown technological and scientiﬁc developments over the past 20 years. During the HWCVD process, precursor gases (e.g., silane and hydrogen) are catalytically dissociated into atomic H and Si at surface of resistively heated ﬁlament (e.g., Ta or W wires) with very high efﬁciency. Plenty of atomic H in the gas phase makes HWCVD a suitable technique for hydrogenated microcrystalline silicon (μc-Si:H) thin ﬁlm deposition (Chap. 21, Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films). And in low-temperature silicon epitaxy, HWCVD also appears promising for the advantage of being simple and high deposition rate. Lowering process temperature has the well-known advantages. So, in the late 1990s and early 2000s, epitaxial growth of Si thin ﬁlm in a relatively low temper- ature region (600 C) was ﬁrst concerned for HWCVD technique (Mason et al. 2003; Watahiki et al. 2000). Researchers had carried out a lot of works to study the inﬂuence of the ﬁlament material, substrate temperature, and growth rate on the properties of epitaxial Si thin ﬁlm. It was found that either based on tungsten or tantalum ﬁlament, Si epitaxy growth was possible for substrate temperatures ranging from 200 C to 500 C. At a relatively low substrate temperature, all of the ﬁlms can be epitaxial in the initial growth stage. But microcrystalline Si with different orientations and even amorphous phase appear above a critical thickness. As an example, TEM images of ﬁlms grown at about 250 C on c-Si substrate by HWCVD are shown in Fig. 4. Adequate diffusion capacity of the radicals on the growing surface is a key point for successful epitaxial growth. The diffusion mobility of adsorbed radicals can be inﬂuenced by substrate temperature, deposition rate and surface condition. Low substrate temperature limits the surface mobility of adsorbed radicals. High deposi- tion rate may interrupt the diffusion of adatoms. Surface transition from dihydride to monohydride termination at higher substrate temperature will reduce the surface diffusion capacity of adatoms. Gas chemistry (radial species, radical-radical reac- tions, depleted or nondepleted regime) also plays a big role during the epitaxial growth of Si thin ﬁlm. The overall result is that the critical thickness is no more than 500 nm for epitaxy below 600 C by using HWCVD. 768 F. Liu and Y. Zhou Aiming at increasing in both the growth rate and achievable thickness of epitaxy Si by HWCVD, substrate temperature was further increased into above the dehy- drogenation temperature of the silicon surface. At the substrate temperature of 610 C, phase-pure epitaxial growth of more than 10 μm was achieved by Wang et al. (2006) at a growth rate of 110 nm/min on (100) silicon wafers using HWCVD. In contrast, mixed-phase breakdown was seen at lower temperatures of 520580 C. The growth regime suggests that rapid dehydrogenation of the growing surface is critical for silicon epitaxy by HWCVD. To obtain high-quality silicon layer at high rates while maximizing SiH4 utiliza- tion, substrate temperatures between 620 C and 800 C, still compatible with substrates such as display glass and metal foil, were further considered for epitaxial Fig. 4 Cross-section transmission electron microscopy images at different positions of the Si thin ﬁlm growth on c-Si wafer by HWCVD at 250 C. (a) About 150 nm from the substrate surface, (b) about 50 nm from the substrate surface, (c) near the epitaxial Si/c-Si interface. (Reprinted with permission from Gaucher et al. 2016) 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 769 growth of Si by HWCVD. At this temperature range, the sticking coefﬁcients of the growth radicals approach unity and thermal CVD of SiH4 at the growth surface also contributions to the growth rate. Epitaxial growth can continue to several tens of micrometers on HF-dipped hydrogen-terminated (100) silicon wafers. Device- quality epitaxial silicon thin ﬁlms at growth rates up to 1.8 μm/min were grown by Bobela et al. (2011) using HWCVD from silane at substrate temperatures below 750 C. Epitaxial layers with a wide range of controllable dopant densities for both n-type and p-type can be easily obtained by using HWCVD. Devices with 2-μm- thick epitaxial Si absorber grown on heavily doped dead Si wafers have shown Voc  630 mV and efﬁciencies up to 8% without light trapping features (Young et al. 2012). Epitaxial Si thin ﬁlms can also be prepared on seeded glass by using HWCVD. The seed layers could be AIC of a-Si:H or crystalline Si layer transferred on display glass. Corning EAGLE XG glass is usually chosen as the substrate, since it has an annealing temperature of 722 C and a softening point of 971 C. The crystallo- graphic quality and morphology of the seed layer greatly inﬂuence the epitaxial Si and device quality. High intra-grain dislocation densities can be revealed for epitaxial Si on AIC seed layer by electron beam-induced conductivity (EBIC) measurements. The solar cells on seeded glass show a decrease of 70 mVon Voc compared with the devices grown on n+ Si wafers with similar 2-μm absorber (Young et al. 2012). We can see that to realize epitaxial growth of Si with considerable thickness and high quality for device application, the substrate temperature goes higher and higher for HWCVD. Otherwise, an epitaxial growth breakdown into poly-crystalline Si or even amorphous phase can be observed at low temperature. The energy required for the migration of adatoms merely comes from the substrate temperature in the HWCVD process. If additional energy is provided, epitaxial growth can be sustained at a lower temperature range. Plasma Enhanced Chemical Vapor Deposition (PECVD) Capacitively coupled radio frequency-plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (RF-PECVD) is a standard technique for the production of a-Si:H and μc-Si:H thin ﬁlms (Chaps. 20, Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film, and 21, Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films). RF-PECVD has also been extended to the epitaxial growth of crystalline silicon thin ﬁlms at low temperature. Actually, in the case of a-Si/c-Si heterojunction solar cells, unexpected epitaxial growth happens and usually leads to poor surface passivation. This is what we have been trying to avoid during the heterojunction solar cells fabrication. However, from different point of view, we can make use of this epitaxial growth to produce crystalline silicon thin ﬁlms. In the recent years, researchers (from LPICM at Ecole Polytechnique in France) have done lots of works on epitaxial growth of crystalline silicon ﬁlms on (100) oriented crystalline silicon substrates by RF-PECVD at a temperature below 200 C (Morenoa and Cabarrocas 2010; Cabarrocas et al. 2012; Cariou et al. 2016). Crystalline silicon thin ﬁlms with the thicknesses of 18 μm can be obtained on heavily boron-doped (100)-oriented Si wafers. 770 F. Liu and Y. Zhou The plasma-assisted epitaxial growth at low temperature is explained in the context of plasma synthesis of silicon nano-crystals. The enhanced gas phase reactions with atomic hydrogen will lead to the formation of silicon nano-crystals in the plasma. And the silicon nano-crystals are believed to be the most plausible building blocks for the deposition of μc-Si:H on glass and epitaxial layer on c-Si substrate. This is different from the traditional μc-Si:H deposition model based on SiH3 radicals. According to the traditional opinion, increasing hydrogen dilution shifts the growth from a-Si:H to μc-Si:H on glass substrate. However, opposite picture was observed for epitaxial growth of Si thin ﬁlm on (100)-oriented Si substrate. At a ﬁxed hydrogen ﬂow rate of 500 sccm, the Si thin ﬁlm changes from μc-Si to epitaxial layer as the silane ﬂow rate increases from 8 sccm up to 35 sccm, which proves the difference between the nano-crystal and silicon radicals growth processes (Cabarrocas et al. 2012). The plasma surface treatments prior to deposition and the nature of the substrate surface play a critical role on the epitaxial growth process. Removing the native oxide layer by sufﬁcient HF solution treatment prior to loading the substrates into the reactor is critical. Otherwise, the epitaxial growth will be prevented by the thin oxide layer. The Si thin ﬁlm growth on Corning glass and on HF dipped (100) and (111)- oriented crystalline Si substrates under the same deposition conditions by RF-PECVD were ever compared by Cabarrocas et al. (2012). Spectroscopic ellipsometry measurement shows that the pseudo-dielectric function εi of ﬁlm deposited on (100) c-Si is similar to that of c-Si; however, the ﬁlms deposited on Corning glass and (111)-oriented crystalline Si are more close to a-Si. The difference between the Si thin ﬁlms on (100) and (111)-oriented c-Si substrates is attributed to the different atomic arrangements on the surfaces. Each silicon atom in the growing plane has to form two bonds or one bond with the atoms in the previous (100) or (111) planes, respectively. Silicon atom is more inclined to be geometrically constrained at a crystalline lattice position for the (100) plane condition than that of a (111) plane. Spectroscopic ellipsometry and TEM measurements show that epitaxial layers with high quality can be achieved by RF-PECVD at low temperature, as shown in Fig. 5 (Cariou et al. 2016). This opens new perspectives to the possibility of growing poly-Si thin ﬁlms in the same equipment as that used for a-Si:H or μc-Si: H thin ﬁlms. A conversion efﬁciency of 7.3% was obtained by Cariou et al. (2016) for a poly- Si thin ﬁlm solar cell with a 5.5 μm PECVD epitaxial Si absorber and a hetero- junction structure of Al/epitaxial Si/i a-Si:H/p a-Si:H/ITO/Ni-Au. Physical Vapor Deposition Electron-beam evaporation (EBE) technique is one of the rather simple physical vapor deposition techniques. It has been developed in Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin für Materialien und Energie as a high throughput and low-cost alternative to conven- tional CVD for poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells (Becker et al. 2013). In the main chamber of the electron-beam evaporation system, the electron beam is generated from an electron gun (a tungsten hot cathode at a voltage of 10 kV). The electron beam is 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 771 then directed by the magnetic ﬁeld towards the silicon target and induces the melting and evaporation of silicon. As the substrate temperatures are below 350400 C, amorphous silicon ﬁlms are formed on the substrate. At higher sub- strate temperatures, poly-Si ﬁlms are grown directly. No additional crystallization step is required. Accurate control of boron doping between 1  1016 cm3 and 1  1020 cm3 can be achieved by co-evaporation of high-purity elemental boron during silicon evaporation. As we know, the electron-beam evaporated silicon impinges the substrate with a certain ﬂux direction. As a result, conformal coating of Si thin ﬁlm on textured substrates is not easy. And improving the short circuit current density by means of a conventional light trapping structure becomes a tough task. However, Becker et al. Fig. 5 Pseudo-dielectric function εi measured on epi-PECVD Si layers with the two types of interface measured by spectroscopic ellipsometry (a). Cross- section transmission electron microscopy bright-ﬁeld images of the sharp (b) and the high-porosity (c) epitaxial Si/c-Si interface. (By Cariou et al. 2016) 772 F. Liu and Y. Zhou (2013) took advantage of the drawback of the speciﬁc growth characteristic of EBE. By combining nanoimprint lithography and high-rate EBE deposition of amorphous Si, they obtained periodic crystalline silicon nanoarrays. Seed Layer and Transfer Technology for Poly-Si Thin Film Solar Cells Seed Layer Techniques It is difﬁcult to obtain high quality poly-Si thin ﬁlms with large grains directly from vapor phase deposition on foreign substrates such as glass or metal foil. A thin silicon seed layer with excellent crystallographic properties will settle the problem by transfer the structural information of the crystallized seed layer to the epitaxial ﬁlm. Detaching and transferring of ultrathin monocrystalline silicon or porous silicon layer from silicon wafer to a foreign substrate is one of the seed layer formation approaches. Based on anodic bonding and implant-induced separation, Corning Inc. developed a proprietary technology to create monocrystalline Si seed layers by transferring 300 nm-thin (001)-oriented monocrystalline Si layers onto glass-ceramic substrates (Dawson-Elli et al. 2007). Besides the layer-transfer Si, many other crystallization techniques, including SPC, AIC, and LPC, are all under developing as candidate seed layers for Si epitaxy. Since the seed layer serves as a crystalline template for epitaxial growth of Si, the microstructure of the seed layer will be get copied into the epitaxial layer. Therefore, many requirements need to be met for a qualiﬁed seed layer. First, the grain size provided by the seed layer approach need be much larger than the thickness of the target poly-Si epitaxial layer. Second, the surface orientations of the seed layer should be conducive to the epitaxial growth. Finally, the densities of intra-grain defects or high-recombination grain boundaries are demanded to be as low as possible. Compared with SPC, poly-Si thin ﬁlms with larger grains can be achieved by LPC or AIC. As the seed layer techniques, both LPC and AIC have gained considerable attention in the poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells fabrication. Based on the AIC and LPC seed layers, different gas phase deposition techniques (e.g., thermal CVD and HWCVD) can be used to realize the further epitaxial growth. Poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells based on AIC and LPC seed layers have been developed. Better material quality of epitaxial Si and higher efﬁciency of poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells have been demonstrated on LPC-Si seed layer than on AIC-Si seed layer. The main reason is much larger grain size of LPC-Si than that of AIC-Si. The thin monocrystalline Si layers on glass-ceramic substrates created at Corning Inc. have been proved to be a good seed layer approach. The typical defect density of the epitaxial Si layers (by thermal CVD) on the Corning monocrystalline Si seed layers was found to be 4 orders lower than that on AIC seed layers (Gordon et al. 2011). Voc values up to 610 mV were achieved by 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 773 Gordon et al. (2011) for poly-Si solar cells with a very simple and nonoptimized structure, which illustrate the good material quality of the thin monocrystalline Si layers on glass-ceramic substrates. Lift-Off and Transfer of Poly-Si Thin Films Lift-off of silicon seed layers or epitaxial layers and transferring them to a secondary low cost substrate are critical steps to build the ﬁnal devices. Different approaches have been explored including Smart-Cutprocess based on hydrogen implantation (Bruel et al. 1997), substrate or ingot spalling by means of a tensile layer (Bedell et al. 2012), electrochemical etching of a wafer by forming porous silicon (Radhakrishnan et al. 2014), etc. In the case of transferring a seed layer to a secondary substrate before epitaxial thickening of the poly-Si thin ﬁlms, the original c-Si wafers can be peeled into many layers. The consumption rate of the silicon wafers is related to the lift-off technology and the thickness of the seed layer. If lift-off and transfer are carried out after the epitaxial growth of the poly-Si thin ﬁlms, the c-Si parent wafer substrates can be reused for many times to repeat the epitaxial procedure. The reported lift-off and transfer techniques are multifarious. A transferring technique reported recently (Morenoa and Cabarrocas 2010; Cariou et al. 2016; Moreno et al. 2013) will be presented here as an example. Without ion implantation, high-temperature annealing, or electrochemical etching, an ultrathin fragile porous epitaxial-layer/wafer interface can be created by plasma treatment before epitaxial growth. This plasma treating process enables easy detachment of the PECVD epitaxial Si layer. The procedure, starting from the plasma treatment of a c-Si parent wafer and ﬁnishing with successful transferring the epitaxial layer to a glass substrate, was illustrated by Cariou et al. (2016), as shown in Fig. 6. A (100)-oriented c-Si wafer was used as the parent substrate. Before the epitaxial growth, a critical important in situ SiF4 plasma cleaning process was carried out. Native oxide layer on the c-Si wafer can be etched off. And, a hydrogen-rich fragile interface between the epitaxial layer and the c-Si wafer can be formed simultaneously. Then, silicon epitaxial growth was carried out on the parent wafer in a standard RF-PECVD reactor. After the epitaxial growth, the whole sample was anodic bonded onto a glass substrate at 200 C. By a short thermal annealing (23 min, 350 C) treatment, the epitaxial layer can be detached from the c-Si parent wafer successfully. The porosity of the interface is critical for the detachment. It can be tuned by adjusting the plasma process to control the accumulation of H at the interface. A threshold of 1314% porosity was demonstrated. As the interface porosity or hydrogen concentration is above the threshold, a crack front that propagates parallel to the interface will appear and result in the detachment of the epitaxial layer under moderate annealing temperature. Taking advantage of the fragility of the H-rich interface, epitaxial Si layer with size of 10 cm2 can be easily cleaved and transferred onto glass substrates. 774 F. Liu and Y. Zhou Heterojunction solar cells with the structure of Al/epitaxial Si/i a-Si:H/p a-Si:H/ ITO/Ni-Au were fabricated and transferred to glass substrates by Cariou et al. (2016). Epitaxial Si by low temperature PECVD acts as the absorber. The Al layer was deposited onto the epitaxial Si layer before the anodic bonding process and served as the back contact. The intrinsic and p doped amorphous layers, ITO and Ni/Au contact were deposited after anodic bonding and layer transfer. An efﬁciency of 7.3% was obtained by Cariou et al. (2016) for a poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cell with a 5.5 μm epitaxial Si absorber. Light Trapping Technology for Poly-Si Thin Film Solar Cells Cost and electrical collection considerations will likely limit the thickness of the poly-Si thin ﬁlm absorber to only several or dozens microns. The inherent indirect band gap of crystalline silicon results in low absorption coefﬁcient and then inade- quate light absorption. Antireﬂective coating and back reﬂector layer do have effects on the light absorption. But comparatively speaking, developing excellent light Fig. 6 Steps involved in low temperature PECVD epitaxial silicon lift-off leading to an epitaxial Si layer on glass. (a) Schematic of the process ﬂow for the growth and transfer of PECVD epitaxial Si layers onto glass substrate. (b) Sunlight through a 1.5 μm epitaxial Si bonded to glass. (c) Scanning transmission electron microscopy high-angle annular dark-ﬁeld image of the epitaxial Si/glass bonded interface (Cariou et al. 2016) 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 775 trapping structures is more important to permit sufﬁcient optical absorption and electron-hole pair generation in the device. However, typical light trapping structure used in conventional c-Si solar cells (Chap. 12, Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization) seems no longer appro- priate for poly-Si thin ﬁlms. Pyramids with the average size of several microns bring high Si consumption. Therefore, light-trapping structures in submicron or nano- meter scales have been studied to meet the requirement of the poly-Si thin ﬁlms. So far, many random or periodic nano-scale light-trapping models have been proposed to control the propagation of light and then overcome the Lambertian limit or Yablonovitch limit of light trapping, as reported by Wang et al. (2012) and Mellor et al. (2013). Although most light trapping approaches based on nano- structures are now aimed at c-Si solar cells, they are also suitable for poly-Si thin ﬁlms. One approach to form random nanostructure (e.g., Si nanowires) is based on a well-known bottom-up vaporliquidsolid (VLS) technique using metal as cata- lysts. However, the application of VLS could be limited by the metal catalyst contamination related deep levels which bring serious carriers recombination. Random silicon nano-wires, nano-holes, or nano-porous can be fabricated by metal assisted chemical etching (MACE, also called metal catalyzed electroless etching, MCEE) of silicon in aqueous hydroﬂuoric acid (HF) solution (Liu et al. 2014). Due to its simplicity and scalability, MACE is now a widely employed fabrication approach of silicon nanostructures. Average surface reﬂectivity (3001000 nm) of Si wafer based on MACE technique can be reduced to as low as 12%, as Liu et al. (2014) and Oh et al. (2012) reported, which is so-called black silicon. Typical SEM images of silicon nano-wires and nano-porous based on MACE are shown in Fig. 7. At present stage, most research works related to MACE nanostructures mainly focus on solar cells based on silicon wafer. For ultra thin Si or poly-Si thin ﬁlms, MACE nanostructures are also available. For example, the MACE silicon nano-wires, as an efﬁcient light trapping structure, have been successfully applied in the ultrathin crystalline silicon with the thickness of 20 μm by He et al. (2015). Nano-photonics with wavelength-scale periodic nanostructures opens up the possibility to reach or surpass the Lambertian limit. In the past several years, signiﬁcant effort has been made to enhance the light absorption by nano-scale light trapping using various periodic nanostructures. Periodic nanostructures can also be fabricated from bottom up VLS process. When periodic metal particles are used, periodic nano-wires array can be grown on the c-Si surface from Si precursors and metal catalysts. However, the metal catalyst contamination is still an insurmountable weakness in PV devices application. Another approach is based on nanostructures fabricated by a top down etching process through a mask. By combining a pattern mask with an etching technique, nano-patterns will be transferred onto the silicon surface. Various techniques have been developed to form the pattern mask including laser interference lithography (LIL), nanoimprint lithography (NIL) from polymer resist, colloidal lithography 776 F. Liu and Y. Zhou from colloidal nanoparticles, etc. The etching techniques are either dry plasma etching (Inductively Coupled Plasma etch, ICP, or Reactive Ion Etching, RIE) or wet chemical etching (NaOH, KOH, or TMAH). Various combinations of pattern masks and etching techniques lead to a large variety of periodic nanostructures such as nanocones, nanowires, nanodomes, nano- holes, nanopyramids, invert nanopyramids, and so on. Many nanopatterning tech- niques have been successfully applied to ultra thin crystalline silicon thin ﬁlms as Gaucher et al. (2016) and Chen et al. (2016) reported. By using UV nanoimprint lithography combined with KOH etching, Gaucher et al. (2016) obtained inverted pyramids structuration on epitaxial layers grown by PECVD at low temperature and fabricated patterned poly-Si solar cells on glass. The SEM images of the inverted pyramids structuration are shown in Fig. 8. A short-circuit current density of 25.3 mA/cm2 was demonstrated for an equivalent thickness of absorber of 2.75 μm. Nanopatterns obtained via wet-etching cannot only lead to better photo- current generation but also keep good passivation quality. In contrast, nanoholes obtained by dry-etching with steep and deep proﬁles represent a challenge for surface passivation (Chen et al. 2016). By combining polymer sphere pattern with alkali etching, periodic pyramids, inverted pyramids, and their combination can be obtained on c-Si as shown in Fig. 9. Fig. 7 SEM images of typical silicon nano-wires and nano-porous by MACE 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 777 This provides more options for periodic light trapping structures on poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells. As a convenient and powerful approach, computer modeling has been widely used to identify the most beneﬁcial nanopattern structure for solar energy harvesting. Fig. 8 SEM images of the inverted pyramids structuration resulting from nanoimprint lithography and KOH etching. (Reprinted with permission from Gaucher et al. 2016) Fig. 9 SEM images of periodic pyramids (a), periodic inverted pyramids (b), and their combina- tion (c) fabricated by using polymer sphere pattern combined with alkali etching 778 F. Liu and Y. Zhou Rigorous coupled-wave analysis (RCWA) and Finite-Difference Time-Domain (FDTD) are the most popular modeling methods. Computer modeling indicates that nanoholes array textured Si surface shows superior light trapping capability than the nanopillars textured one. The computer modeling can also provide us a practical guideline to reach the highest short circuit current (Jsc) for a speciﬁc solar cell architecture. The super-Gaussian holes and the inverted nano-pyramids were modeled and compared by RCWA or FDTD at different thicknesses of c-Si absorp- tion layer. The inverted nano-pyramids with optimal pitch and ﬁll factor present higher Jsc than super-Gaussian holes. A highest Jsc up to 35 mA/cm2 was predicted for an 8-μm thin silicon ﬁlm (Depauw et al. (2014). The Jsc value predicted from the simulation is consistent with the experimental results obtained by Branham et al. (2015). Based on microelectronic techniques, Branham et al. (2015) achieved peak efﬁciency of 15.7% and peak Jsc of 34.5 mA/cm2 for 10-μm-thick crystalline silicon solar cells using periodic inverted nano-pyramids as the light-trapping structure. This conﬁrms the feasibility of obtaining high efﬁciency poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells by suitable light trapping based on nanostructures. Light trapping nanostructures can also be formed on glass substrates, especially for solar cells in a superstrate conﬁguration, such as SiO2 bead coated, abrasion etch textured, aluminum induced textured, and nanoimprinted glass substrates. Com- bined nanoimprinted glass substrates with e-beam evaporated silicon, highly absorb- ing periodic poly-Si nano- or microarchitectures can be formed directly, as shown in Fig. 10 (Sontheimer et al. 2011 and Becker et al. 2012). Backside texturing of the silicon ﬁlm, plasmon enhanced light trapping by metal nanoparticles has also been studied. Although nanostructures can achieve efﬁcient light management by reducing reﬂectivity signiﬁcantly over a broad range of wavelength and incident angle, it is still a challenging job to obtain high efﬁciency on solar cell devices with nano- structures. The damage and defects induced by etching process (especially dry-etching) bring serious surface recombination. And the increased surface area Fig. 10 SEM image of a periodically structured poly-Si ﬁlm grown on nanoimprinted- textured glass by EBE. The inset is the cross-sectional SEM image of periodic arrays of Si crystals on nanoimprinted-textured glass. (By Sontheimer et al. 2011 and Becker et al. 2012) 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 779 makes the surface passivating a very difﬁcult task. As a result, a striking drop of Voc is usually observed. So, simple and effective surface passivation technique is critical important and highly desired. For the condition that textures formed on glass substrates, in addition to high surface recombination velocities, the textured interfaces cause deterioration of silicon material quality when going on SPC or LPC process. To solve this problem, a novel texture method named the smooth antireﬂective three-dimensional (SMART) texture was put forward by Eisenhauer et al. (2017) for poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells on glass. The SMART texture is produced by combining nanoimprint lithography of hexagonal SiOx nanopillar arrays with spin-coating of titanium oxide layers. The voids between the SiOx nanopillars are preferentially ﬁlled by the spin- coating of TiOx. A smooth surface morphology without edges and steep ﬂanks can be formed on glass substrate. The SMART texture has the characteristics of optically rough and morphologically ﬂat. LPC poly-Si ﬁlms grown on SMART textured glass substrate show equivalent electronic quality compared with planar references. Voc values above 630 mV were achieved. Additional light management measures at the air/glass interface and silicon rear side can be combined with the SMART texture to increase the light absorption over a wide spectral range. And one more point, the fabrication cost of the light trapping structures and the compatibility with the PV industry need to be taken into consideration. All fabrica- tion processing steps of the light trapping structures should be able to be up-scalable to large areas. Producing of low-cost poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells with advanced nanostructure can be expected based on reasonable integrating in the fabrication process. Quality Characterization of Poly-Si Thin Films All of the techniques to obtain poly-Si thin ﬁlms are aiming at a material quality as close as possible to c-Si wafers. Therefore, characterization techniques and analysis methods of the structural and opto-electronic properties of poly-Si thin ﬁlms are similar to those of c-Si or poly-Si wafers (Chaps. 2, Polysilicon and Its Charac- terization Methods, and 13, Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials). Transmission electron microscope (TEM) measurement is commonly used to char- acterize the microstructure and the interface quality of the poly-Si thin ﬁlms. Raman scattering, X-ray diffraction (XRD), and electron backscattered diffraction (EBSD) measurements can give us information about the crystallization of poly-Si thin ﬁlms. Light absorption, optical-conductivity, and mobility measurements can provide us the optical or electrical properties of poly-Si thin ﬁlms. Electron beam-induced conductivity (EBIC) measurement can be used to investigate the diffusion length of minority carriers and dislocation density in the poly-Si thin ﬁlms. Electron spin resonance can yield the density of dangling bond defects. Spectroscopic ellipsometry is often used to determine the quality of epitaxial thin ﬁlms. The measured structural and opto-electronic properties are usually compared with those of ideal c-Si to 780 F. Liu and Y. Zhou determine the quality of poly-Si thin ﬁlms. EBSD, EBIC, Raman scattering, and spectroscopic ellipsometry will be brieﬂy introduced here. EBSD is widely used in the study of poly-Si thin ﬁlms. EBSD can provide detailed information on grain size, crystallographic orientation of grains, and density and type of grain-boundaries. Qualitative and quantitative information on the intra- grain mis-orientation (plastic deformation) in poly-Si thin ﬁlms subjected to strain gradients can also be obtained from the EBSD measurement. Most EBSD systems can generate graphical displays of the distribution of individual phases, of mis-orientation between individual grains and pole ﬁgures for displaying statistical distributions of orientations of individual grains. EBSD images, including pattern quality mappings, orientation distribution maps, and grain average mis-orientation (GAM) maps, are usually shown in literatures to illustrate the crystallization quality of poly-Si thin ﬁlms after different processing. As an example, Fig. 11 shows the EBSD grain size and orientation maps of poly-Si thin ﬁlms prepared from the SPC of a-Si:H ﬁlms by Kumar et al. (2015). EBSD can be combined with EBIC by obtaining the scanning electron images for both measurements from the same location. This combination of analyses can reveal the correlation between the electrical properties of the poly-Si grains and their crystallographic characterization. Figure 12 shows an EBSD GAM map, an EBIC image, and a superposition of the GAM and EBIC images of a SPC poly-Si thin ﬁlm (Ke et al. 2014). Electrically active intra-grain defects seem appearing near the grain boundaries of grains larger than 3 μm. These electrically active defects may be attributed to the increasing density of geometrically necessary dislocations (GNDs). Raman scattering is an inelastic scattering of photons with phonons in materials. A small fraction of the scattered photons have a frequency different from, and usually lower than, that of the incident photons. The difference in energy Fig. 11 EBSD grain size and orientation map of the n-type poly-Si thin ﬁlms prepared from the SPC of a-Si:H ﬁlms deposited at (a) 380 C and (b) 410 C, respectively, for a PH3 (2% in H2)/SiH4 gas ﬂow ratio of 0.25. (Reprinted with permission from Kumar et al. 2015) 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 781 (or frequency) between the incident photons and the scattered photons corresponds to the energy required to excite an atom or a molecule to a higher vibrational mode. For c-Si, the Raman scattering is limited to a narrow transverse optical phonon (TO) mode at 520 cm1 with a full width at half maximum (FWHM) of 3.2 cm1 by the conservation of crystal momentum. The increase of defects and disorder in poly-Si thin ﬁlms leads to the broadening of the TO peak. So, the FWHM of the TO mode at 520 cm1 is an excellent indicator of the crystal quality of poly-Si thin ﬁlms. To characterize the structural order of poly-Si thin ﬁlms, FWHM of the TO mode is often measured and compared with that of c-Si. The FWHM value of poly-Si thin ﬁlms obtained by using LPC technique (3.5 cm1) is much closer to the ideal FWHM of c-Si than those obtained from AIC (3.8 cm1) or SPC (4.8 cm1) (Becker et al. 2013). Therefore, LPC is more suitable for seed layer fabrication. Compared with a standard Raman spectrometer, a Raman microspectrometer (Micro-Raman) is more powerful to determine the local structural in different zone of poly-Si thin ﬁlms. Micro-Raman consists of a specially designed Raman spec- trometer integrated with an optical microscope. Evolutionary process of AIC seed layer is often investigated by using Micro-Raman. The frequency of Raman modes is affected by the stress or mechanical strain in the ﬁlms. So, Micro-Raman is widely used to study stress in the ﬁlms. There is usually a shift in the peak position toward lower wave numbers for poly-Si thin ﬁlms compared with c-Si wafer, which indicates the increase of tensile stress in the poly-Si thin ﬁlms. For SPC poly-Si 0 5 0 5 a b c 6 µm Fig. 12 (a) GAM map of a SPC poly-Si region with large grains. The black lines were added to indicate grain boundaries. (b) EBIC image of the same region (white = large signal). (c) Superpo- sition of images (a) and (b). (By Ke et al. 2014) 782 F. Liu and Y. Zhou thin ﬁlms, the stress can be reduced by increasing the deposition temperature of the a-Si:H ﬁlms as Kumar et al. (2015) reported. Spectroscopic ellipsometry is a powerful technique which has already been widely used during the optimization of epitaxial thin ﬁlms. For better characteriza- tion of the ﬁlm growth, real-time spectroscopic ellipsometry is commonly adopted. At this condition, the PECVD or HWCVD reactor should be equipped with windows that allow optical access for real-time measurement. The optical reﬂection data can be analyzed to track the progress and breakdown of epitaxy growth as carried out by Teplin et al. (2005). By ﬁtting the measured optical reﬂection data (pseudo-dielectric functions εi or Im[ε]) with optical model, information according to the epitaxial silicon thin ﬁlm can be determined. Usually, epitaxial silicon thin ﬁlms can be described by a three layer model, as reported by Morenoa and Cabarrocas (2010) and Teplin et al. (2005), which divided the epitaxial layer into a very thin (1 nm) interface layer, a bulk layer, and a roughness top layer. Film thickness, surface roughness, interface condition, crystallinity, and voids content of the bulk layer and optical properties of the epitaxial silicon ﬁlm can be obtained by using the powerful spectroscopic ellipsometry. The typical Im[ε] spectra of epitaxial ﬁlms prepared by using PECVD (Cariou et al. 2016) are shown in Fig. 5a. In the high energy part (3 eV), the two Im[ε] curves are similar and have the same shape as that of the bare c-Si wafer, suggesting same structural composition and quality as the c-Si wafer. Modeling of the spectra indeed shows 100% c-Si of the bulk layer. The amplitude of the oscillations at low energy (below 2.5 eV) differs for these two spectra, which was attributed to the difference in the interface by Cariou et al. (2016). The sharp interface leads to interferences with low amplitude, while a high-porosity interface shows higher amplitude of the oscillations in the low-energy range. Grain size, FWHM of Raman peak, diffusion length of carriers, and dislocation density of poly-Si thin ﬁlms prepared by different methods are summarized in Table 1. The LPC poly-Si shows the largest grain size which indicates the most suitable approach as an epitaxial seed layer. To ensure efﬁcient carrier collection in a solar cell, a satisfactory diffusion length larger than three times of the absorber thickness is usually required. So, thicker poly-Si absorber demands higher material Table 1 Summarization of grain size, FWHM of Raman peak, diffusion length, and dislocation density of poly-Si thin ﬁlms prepared by different methods Methods Grain size FWHM of Raman TO mode (cm1) Diffusion length (μm) Dislocation or defect density (cm2) SPC 1  15 μm 4.8 0.5 μm  10 μm (12)  1010 AIC 5  30 μm 3.8   LPC mm  cm 3.5 220 μm 1065  108 HWCVD on c-Si Epitaxial 3.9 1.514 μm 104108 Kumar et al. (2015), Becker et al. (2013), Watahiki et al. (2000), Ke et al. (2014), Kühnapfel et al. (2015, 2016), Alberi et al. (2010), Huang et al. (2015), and Delachat et al. (2013) 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 783 quality. For a poly-Si layer with the thickness of 45 μm, at present stage, LPC poly- Si and epitaxial Si on c-Si seem to be able to meet the above requirement. Poly-Si Thin Film Solar Cells According to the diverse growth techniques of the poly-Si thin ﬁlms, fabrication processes of poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells are quite different from each other. However, the main structure of the solar cells is still p-n junction just like conventional c-Si solar cells. And both p-type- and n-type-based devices have been demonstrated. In the early stage, conventional homo-junction designs are mainly adopted for poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells. In recent years, a-Si:H/poly-Si hetero-junction devices, with doped a-Si:H as the emitter and intrinsic a-Si:H as the passivation layer, enable much higher open circuit voltages than diffused homo-junctions. Junction type, main fabrication process, champion efﬁciency, and absorber thickness of poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells prepared by diverse methods are summarized in Table 2. For the thermal SPC and the LPC poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells, devices are fabricated directly on glass or metal substrates. Both substrate and superstrate conﬁgurations have been implemented. For epitaxial approaches, seed layer fabri- cation and/or growth layer transfer techniques are usually involved. Two types of solar cells fabrication processes related to epitaxial growth of poly-Si thin ﬁlms are schematically illustrated in Fig. 13. For process A, epitaxial growth is carried out on c-Si wafer substrate. Lift-off and transferring of the epitaxial layer are included in the fabrication process of the solar cells. For process B, a seed layer is ﬁrst created on glass substrate, followed by epitaxial thickening of the crystalline silicon seed layer. The seed layer could be large-grained AIC, LPC, or SPC poly-Si thin ﬁlms grown on glass substrate. It could also be layer-transferred c-Si thin ﬁlms oxide-bonded to Corning EAGLE XG glass substrate (SiOG). Based on the combination of high temperature vapor phase epitaxy and bonding technology, efﬁciencies around 16% can be achieved for poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells on low cost substrates. Very recently, Radhakrishnan et al. (2017) processed kerﬂess epitaxial foils (47 μm, CVD 1130 C), which are lifted-off and layer transferred onto glass, into HJ-IBC devices. The fabrication process sequence of the solar cells is carefully optimized and is compatible with EVA-bonded Si. Most solar cell pro- cessing steps are carried out after bonding process, which enabling high mechanical yield. Based on the HJ-IBC solar cell technology, a best solar cell efﬁciency of 16.1% was achieved. Improvements to the solar cell performance of future epitaxial silicon foil devices on low cost substrate are expected by increasing the bulk lifetime, optimizing the contact stack, using alternative bonding agents, and implementing advanced light trapping structures. A LPC device with much less thickness (13 μm) than that of the high temperature epitaxial silicon foil (47 μm) shows pretty good result as reported recently by Sonntag et al. (2017). After sequentially depositing the triple dielectric stack (SiOx/SiNx/SiOx, PECVD), precursor Si absorber (electron-beam evaporation), 784 F. Liu and Y. Zhou phosphorous doped a-Si:H (PECVD), and capping layer (SiOx) on alumino-silicate glass substrates, the LPC process was carried out in vacuum using a line-shaped 808 nm wavelength CW laser. Rapid thermal annealing process, hydrogen plasma treatment, and a common KOH texturing process were carried out subsequently. Finally, an interdigitated back-contact (IBC) a-Si:H/c-Si heterojunction (SHJ) solar cell structure was adopted. LPC-Si solar cells with above 630 mV open circuit voltage and a conversion efﬁciency of up to 13.2% were obtained on poly-Si absorber with thickness of roughly 13 μm by Sonntag et al. (2017). LPC poly-Si technology shows the potential to surpass 15% conversion efﬁciency in the near Table 2 Junction type, main processes, maximum efﬁciency, and absorber thickness of poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells prepared by different approaches Fabrication method Junction type Main processes Texture Absorber thickness η (%) Source SPC Homo Borosilicate glass; PECVD; SPC 600 C; RTA; H-passivation Textured borosilicate glass 12 μm 10.4 Keevers et al. (2007) AIC seed layer Hetero Alumina substrate; AIC seed layer, 500 C, 4 h; thermal CVD 1130 C; plasma texturing; remote plasma hydrogenation Plasma texturing 2 μm 8.54 Yu Qiu et al. (2014) LPC Hetero Glass substrate; SiOx/SiNx/SiOx stack layer; electron-beam evaporation; line- shaped 808 nm laser; H plasma treatment KOH texturing 13 μm 13.2 Sonntag et al. (2017) High T epitaxy Hetero Porous Si seed layer; CVD 1130 C; epitaxial foil detachment; bonded to glass; HJ-IBC; most cell processing after bonding TMAH texturing 47 μm 16.1 Radhakrishnan et al. (2017) PECVD epitaxy Hetero PECVD 175 C on c-Si; Epi-layer transfer; on glass No 5.5 μm 7.3 Cariou et al. (2016) HWCVD epitaxy Hetero Dead n+ wafer substrate; HWCVD 750 C; H passivation No 2 μm 7.9 Young et al. (2012) 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 785 future by better control of the crystallization process and by improving the solar cell structure. Up to now, SPC-Si solar cell is still the only poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cell technol- ogy that had ever been carried out to industrial production. The moderate material quality and relative complex processes involved in most poly-Si thin ﬁlm approaches are drawbacks limiting the device efﬁciency and large scale fabrication of poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells. Conclusions In the past years, diverse techniques have been developed for the fabrication of poly- Si thin ﬁlm solar cells as described in this chapter. A lot of efforts have been made to improve the quality of poly-Si thin ﬁlms, to rationalize the device structure, to optimize the fabrication techniques, and thus to increase the solar cells efﬁciency. The gradual increasing of the efﬁciency of poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells is demonstrated. Up to the present, the efﬁciency for poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells on low cost substrates reached above 16% by lifting off and bonding high temperature epitaxial Type B Seed layer formation Epitaxial growth Emitter deposition TCO deposition Etching Emitter contact formation Base contact formation Type A Epitaxial growth BSF layer epitaxial layer Si substrate Glass substrate Glass substrate TCO Emitter BSF deposition Metal deposition Detachment Bonding Texture Emitter deposition TCO deposition Metal Grid Fabrication Grid Fig. 13 Two typical poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells fabrication processes. Lift-off and transferring of the epitaxial layer are included in type A process. Seed layer fabrication is involved in type B process 786 F. Liu and Y. Zhou silicon foils to the low cost substrates. The solar cell processing and interconnection can be carried out at the module level by carefully optimization of the solar cell fabrication procedure, which makes the large-scale production possible. It also seems, from the current research results, the LPC approach for poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells has the high potential to achieve solar cell efﬁciencies above 15% and to expand the fast fabrication processes to an industrial production scale. More efforts are needed to further improve the material qualities and device interfaces, to develop a cost-effective fabrication process, and ﬁnally to achieve highly efﬁcient poly-Si thin ﬁlm modules. Besides the conventional p-n homo- or hetero-junction solar cells, some new type solar cell structures based on c-Si including organic-inorganic hybrid solar cells (He et al. 2015) and solar cells with dopant-free asymmetric heterocontacts (Bullock et al. 2016) are being investigated extensively. The low temperature and simple fabrication processes make them suitable for poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells with ultrathin absorption layer. On the longer term, poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells on large area inexpensive sub- strates, with the advantages of less silicon consumption, high efﬁciency, and ﬂexible device structure, have the potential to take a place in the global PV market. Cross-References Characterization of Wafers and Supply Materials Fluidized Bed Process with Silane Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Dendritic Cast Method Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods Siemens Process Upgrade Metallurgical Grade Silicon Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization Wafer Processing References K. Alberi, I. Martin, M. Shub, C. Teplin, M. Romero, R. Reedy, E. Iwaniczko, A. Duda, P. Stradins, H. Branz, D. Young, Material quality requirements for efﬁcient epitaxial ﬁlm silicon solar cells. Appl. Phys. Lett. 96, 073502 (2010) C. Becker, V. Preidel, T. Sontheimer, C. Klimm, E. Rudigier-Voigt, M. Bockmeyer, B. Rech, Direct growth of periodic silicon nanostructures on imprinted glass for photovoltaic and photonic applications. Phys. Status Solidi C 9, 2079 (2012) 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 787 C. Becker, D. Amkreutz, T. Sontheimer, V. Preidel, D. Lockau, J. Haschke, L. Jogschies, C. Klimm, J. Merkel, P. Plocica, S. Steffens, B. Rech, Polycrystalline silicon thin-ﬁlm solar cells: Status and perspectives. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 119, 112 (2013) S. Bedell, D. Shahrjerdi, B. Hekmatshoar, K. Fogel, P.A. Lauro, N. Sosa, D. Sadana, Kerf-less removal of Si, Ge, and IIIV layers by controlled spalling to enable low-cost PV technologies. EPJ Photovolt. 2, 141 (2012) D. Bobela, C. Teplin, D. Young, H. Branz, P. Stradins, Epitaxial crystal silicon absorber layers and solar cells grown at 1.8 microns per minute, in The 37th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference (PVSC37) Seattle, 19 (2011) M.S. Branham, W.C. Hsu, S. Yerci, J. Loomis, S.V. Boriskina, B.R. Hoard, S.E. Han, G. Chen, 15.7% efﬁcient 10-μm-thick crystalline silicon solar cells using periodic nanostructures. Adv. Mater. 27, 2182 (2015) M. Bruel, B. Aspar, A.-J. Auberton-Hervéa, New silicon on insulator material technology based on hydrogen implantation and wafer bonding. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 36, 1636 (1997) J. Bullock, M. Hettick, J. Geissbühler, A. Ong, T. Allen, C. Sutter-Fella, T. Chen, H. Ota, E. Schaler, S. Wolf, C. Ballif, A. Cuevas, A. Javey, Efﬁcient silicon solar cells with dopant-free asymmetric heterocontacts. Nat Energy 1, 15031 (2016) P. Cabarrocas, R. Cariou, M. Labrune, Low temperature plasma deposition of silicon thin ﬁlms: from amorphous to crystalline. J. Non-Cryst. Solids 358(17), 2000 (2012) R. Cariou, W. Chen, I. Bolanos, J. Maurice, M. Foldyna, V. Depauw, G. Patriarche, A. Gaucher, A. Cattoni, I. Massiot, S. Collin, E. Cadel, P. Pareige, P. Cabarrocas, Ultrathin PECVD epitaxial Si solar cells on glass via low-temperature transfer process. Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 24(8), 1075 (2016) W. Chen, R. Cariou, M. Foldyna, V. Depauw, C. Trompoukis, E. Drouard, L. Lalouat, A. Harouri, J. Liu, A. Fave, R. Orobtchouk, F. Mandorlo, C. Seassal, I. Massiot, A. Dmitriev, K. Lee, P. Cabarrocas, Nanophotonics-based low-temperature PECVD epitaxial crystalline silicon solar cells. J. Phys. D. Appl. Phys. 49, 125603 (2016) D. Dawson-Elli, C. Williams, J. Couillard, J. Cites, R. Manley, G. Fenger, K. Hirschman, Demon- stration of high performance TFTs on silicon-on-glass (SiOG) substrate. ECS Trans. 8(1), 223 (2007) F. Delachat, F. Antoni, P. Prathap, A. Slaoui, C. Cayron, C. Ducros, Thin ﬁlm pc-Si by aluminium induced crystallization on metallic substrate. EPJ Photovolt. 4, 45102 (2013) V. Depauw, I. Abdo, R. Boukhicha, R. Cariou, W. Chen, I. Cosme Bolanos, O. Deparis et al., Nanophotonics for ultra-thin crystalline silicon photovoltaics: when photons meet electrons, in 29th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition 3B0.5.5 (2014) D.J. Eaglesham, J. Appl. Phys. 77, 3597 (1995) D. Eisenhauer, G. Köppel, K. Jäger, D. Chen, O. Shargaieva, P. Sonntag, D. Amkreutz, B. Rech, C. Becker, Smooth anti-reﬂective three-dimensional textures for liquid phase crystallized silicon thin-ﬁlm solar cells on glass. Sci. Rep. 7, 2658 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-02874-y A. Gaucher, A. Cattoni, C. Dupuis, W. Chen, R. Cariou, M. Foldyna, L. Lalouat, E. Drouard, C. Seassal, P. Cabarrocas, S. Collin, Ultrathin epitaxial silicon solar cells with inverted nano- pyramid arrays for efﬁcient light trapping. Nano Lett. 16(9), 5358 (2016) I. Gordon, F. Dross, V. Depauw, A. Masolin, Y. Qiu, J. Vaes, D. Van Gestel, J. Poortmans, Three novel ways of making thin-ﬁlm crystalline-silicon layers on glass for solar cell applications. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 95, S2S7 (2011) J. Han, L. Wang, A. Lochtefeld, A. Gerger, H. Li, M. Carroll, Y. Yao, A. Lennon, R. Opila, A. Barnett, Fabrication of large area ultra-thin silicon solar cells, in 29th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition (2014), p. 1502 J. He, P. Gao, M. Liao, Y. Xi, Z. Ying, S. Zhou, J. Ye, C. Yi, Realization of 13.6% efﬁciency on 20μm thick Si/organic hybrid heterojunction solar cells via advanced nanotexturing and surface recombination suppression. ACS Nano 9, 6522 (2015) W. Hsu, J. Tong, M. Branham, Y. Huang, S. Yerci, S.V. Boriskina, G. Chen, Mismatched front and back gratings for optimum light trapping in ultra-thin crystalline silicon solar cells. Opt. Commun. 377, 52 (2016) 788 F. Liu and Y. Zhou J. Huang, S. Varlamov, J. Dore, J.S. Yun, M.A. Green, Micro-structural defects in polycrystalline silicon thin-ﬁlm solar cells on glass by solid-phase crystallisation and laser-induced liquid-phase crystallisation. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 132, 282 (2015) P. Kapur, M. Moslehi, A. Deshpande, V. Rana, J. Kramer, S. Seutter, H. Deshazer, S. Coutant, A. Calcaterra, S. Kommera, Y.-S. Su, D. Grupp, S. Tamilmani, D. Dutton, T. Stalcup, T. Du, M. Wingert, A manufacturable, non-plated, non-Ag metallization based 20.44% efﬁcient, 243cm2 area, back contacted solar cell on 40 um thick mono-crystalline silicon, in 28th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition (2013), p. 2228 C. Ke, F. Law, P. Widenborg, A. Aberle, I. Peters, Electrical activity of geometrically necessary dislocations in polycrystalline silicon thinﬁlms prepared by solid phase crystallization. Phys. Status Solidi A211, 2488 (2014) M. Keevers, T. Young, U. Schubert, M. Green, 10% efﬁcient CSG minimoduls, in 22nd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference (2007), p. 1783 W. Knaepen, C. Detavernier, R.L. Meirhaeghe, J.J. Sweet, C. Lavoie, In-situ X-ray Diffraction study of metal induced crystallization of amorphous silicon. Thin Solid Films 516, 4946 (2008) S. Kühnapfel, J. Huang, A. Teal, H. Kampwerth, D. Amkreutz, S. Gall, S. Varlamov, Lifetime analysis of laser crystallized silicon ﬁlms on glass. J. Appl. Phys. 118, 055304 (2015) S. Kühnapfel, S. Gall, P. Sonntag, N. Schäfer, D. Abou-Ras, Direct correlation of microstructure and device performance of liquid phase crystallized Si thin ﬁlm solar cells on glass. Phys. Status Solidi RRL 10, 657 (2016) A. Kumar, P.I. Widenborg, G.K. Dalapati, C. Ke, G.S. Subramanian, A. Aberle, Controlling stress in large-grained solid phase crystallized n-type poly-Si thin ﬁlms to improve crystal quality. Cryst. Growth Des. 15, 1067 (2015) L. Liu, K. Peng, Y. Hu, X. Wu, S. Lee, Fabrication of silicon nanowire arrays by macroscopic galvanic cell-driven metal catalyzed electroless etching in aerated HF solution. Adv. Mater. 26, 1410 (2014) M.S. Mason, C.M. Chen, H.A. Atwater, Hot-wire chemical vapor deposition for epitaxial silicon growth on large-grained polycrystalline silicon templates. Thin Solid Films 430, 54 (2003) A. Mellor, H. Hauser, C. Wellens, J. Benick, et al., Nanoimprinted diffraction gratings for crystal- line silicon solar cells: implementation, characterization and simulation. Opt. Express 21, A295 (2013) M. Moreno, G. Patriarche, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Fine tuning of the interface in high-quality epitaxial silicon ﬁlms deposited by plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition at 200 C. J. Mater. Res. 28, 1626 (2013) M. Morenoa, P. Cabarrocas, Ultra-thin crystalline silicon ﬁlms produced by plasma assisted epitaxial growth on silicon wafers and their transfer to foreign substrates. EPJ Photovolt. 1, 10301 (2010) M. Nerding, L. Oberbeck, T.A. Wagner, R.B. Bergmann, H.P. Strunk, Single to polycrystalline transition in silicon growth by ion-assisted deposition at low temperatures. J. Appl. Phys. 93, 2570 (2003) J. Oh, H.C. Yuan, H.M. Branz, An 18.2%-efﬁcient black-silicon solar cell achieved through control of carrier recombination in nanostructures. Nat. Nanotechnol. 7(11), 743 (2012) J.H. Petermann, D. Zielke, J. Schmidt, F. Haase, E.G. Rojas, R. Brendel, 19%-efﬁcient and 43 mm- thick crystalline Si solar cell from layer transfer using porous silicon. Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 20, 1 (2012) N. Preissler, D. Amkreutz, P. Sonntag, M. Trahms, R. Schlatmann, B. Rech, Interface engineering for liquid-phase crystallized-silicon solar cells on glass. Sol. RRL 1, 1700015 (2017a) N. Preissler, J. Töfﬂinger, O. Gabriel, P. Sonntag, D. Amkreutz, B. Stannowski, B. Rech, R. Schlatmann, Passivation at the interface between liquid-phase crystallized silicon and silicon oxynitride in thinﬁlm solar cells. Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 25, 515 (2017b) Y. Qiu, O. Kunz, A. Fejfar, M. Ledinský, B. Chan, I. Gordon, D. Gestel, S. Venkatachalm, R. Egan, On the effects of hydrogenation of thin ﬁlm polycrystalline silicon: a key factor to improve heterojunction solar cells. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 122, 31 (2014) 22 Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film 789 H. Radhakrishnan, R. Martini, V. Depauw, K. Van Nieuwenhuysen, M. Debucquoy, J. Govaerts, I. Gordon, R. Mertens, J. Poortmans, Improving the quality of epitaxial foils produced using a porous silicon-based layer transfer process for high-efﬁciency thin-ﬁlm crystalline silicon solar cells. EPJ Photovolt 4, 70 (2014) H. S. Radhakrishnan, M. Xu, T. Bearda, M. Filipič, K. Van Nieuwenhuysen, V. Depauw, I. Gordon, M. Debucquoy, J. Szlufcik, J. Poortman, Heterojunction IBC solar cells on thin ( 50 μm) epitaxial Si foils produced from Kerﬂess layer transfer process, in 33rd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition (2017), p. 740 B. Rau, I. Sieber, B. Selle, S. Brehme, U. Knipper, S. Gall, et al., Homo-epitaxial Si absorber layers grown by low-temperature ECRCVD. Thin Solid Films 644, 451 (2004) T. Sontheimer, E. Rudigier-Voigt, M. Bockmeyer, C. Klimm, P. Schubert-Bischoff, C. Becker, B. Rech, Large-area fabrication of equidistant free-standing Si crystals on nanoimprinted glass. Phys. Status Solidi RRL 5, 376 (2011) M. Schwarzschild, Crystalline thin ﬁlm grows on amorphous base. Phys. Today 32(8), 21 (1979) P. Sonntag, N. Preissler, M. Bokalič, M. Trahms, J. Haschke, R. Schlatmann, M. Topič, B. Rech, D. Amkreutz, Silicon solar cells on glass with power conversion efﬁciency above 13% at thickness below 15 micrometer. Sci. Rep. 7, 873 (2017) C. Teplin, D.H. Levi, E. Iwaniczko, K.M. Jones, J.D. Perkins, H.M. Branz, Monitoring and modeling silicon homoepitaxy breakdown with real-time spectroscopic ellipsometry. J. Appl. Phys. 97, 103536 (2005) Q. Wang, C.W. Teplin, P. Stradins, B. To, K.M. Jones, H.M. Branz, Recent advances in hot-wire CVD R&D at NREL: from 18% silicon heterojunction cells to silicon epitaxy at glass- compatible temperatures. J. Appl. Phys. 100, 93520 (2006) K. Wang, Z. Yu, V. Liu, Y. Cui, S. Fan, Absorption enhancement in ultrathin crystalline silicon solar cells with antireﬂection and light-trapping nanocone gratings. Nano Lett. 12, 1616 (2012) T. Watahiki, A. Yamada, M. Konagai, New approach to low-temperature Si epitaxy by using hot wire cell method. J. Cryst. Growth 209, 335 (2000) D. Young, S. Grover, C. Teplin, P. Stradins, V. LaSalvia, T. Chuang, J. Greg, C. Howard, M. Branz, Characterization of epitaxial ﬁlm silicon solar cells grown on seeded display glass, in The 2012 I.E. Photovoltaic Specialists Conference 3 (2012) 790 F. Liu and Y. Zhou Part VI Nano-structure Silicon Materials and Solar Cells Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 23 Deyuan Wei, Shuyan Xu, and Igor Levchenko Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 794 Properties of Nanocrystalline Silicon ........................................................... 798 Properties of Intrinsic Materials ............................................................. 798 Properties of the Doped Materials ........................................................... 807 Fabrication of Nanocrystalline Silicon Films ................................................... 808 Mainstream Deposition Methods ............................................................ 808 Alternative Deposition Methods ............................................................. 813 Solar Cell Technology ........................................................................... 816 Device Formation and Operation ............................................................ 817 Design of a Typical Single-Junction Solar Cell ............................................. 818 Multijunction Solar Cell ..................................................................... 822 Light-Induced Degradation .................................................................. 824 Advanced Technologies for Efﬁciency Improvement .......................................... 825 Improved Absorber Material on Textured Substrate ........................................ 825 D. Wei (*) Plasma Sources and Application Center, NIE, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Republic of Singapore Micromachines Lab 1, School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Republic of Singapore e-mail: dywei@ntu.edu.sg S. Xu Plasma Sources and Application Center, NIE, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Republic of Singapore e-mail: shuyan.xu@nie.edu.sg I. Levchenko Plasma Sources and Application Center, NIE, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, Republic of Singapore School of Chemistry, Physics and Mechanical Engineering, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, QLD, Australia e-mail: levchenko.igor@nie.edu.sg  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_38 793 Interface Treatment .......................................................................... 827 Optical Design for Light Management ...................................................... 829 Present Status of Solar Cell Efﬁciency ......................................................... 837 Conclusion and Prospects ....................................................................... 838 References ....................................................................................... 839 Abstract Thin-ﬁlm solar cell technology based on nanocrystalline silicon has made a signiﬁcant progress since the production of the ﬁrst hydrogenated nanocrystalline silicon (nc-Si:H) solar cell in 1994. Up to date, the highest conversion efﬁciency of single-junction nc-Si:H thin-ﬁlm solar cells has reached 11.8%, and further progress is expected. In this chapter, we aim to outline the progress, trends, and major approaches to enhance the nanocrystalline silicon solar cell technology and achieve considerably higher efﬁciency numbers. Comprising of two parts, this chapter in its ﬁrst part describes the fundamentals of nanocrystalline silicon properties, typical fabrication methods, and technologies for solar cells as well as recent progress in nc-Si:H fabrications and properties. The second part states the recent advanced technologies for efﬁciency improvement and provides an overview of the signiﬁcant achievements, current status, and future prospects of the thin-ﬁlm solar cells based on nc-Si:H. In particular, the highest reported open- circuit voltage of 608 mV has been demonstrated in a 650-nm-thick single- junction nc-Si:H solar cell by applying amorphous silicon passivation layers at the n/i interface. Besides, the multijunction solar cell technique has signiﬁcantly contributed to the improvement of the conversion efﬁciency. In particular, the best triple-junction tandem solar cells reach an initial active-area efﬁciency of about 16% in the a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/nc-Si:H structure. Such an impressive success in light management paves the way to the application of nanocrystalline silicon for many vital ﬁelds such as novel texture structures, window layers, intermediate reﬂectors for the improvements of photocurrent density, and conversion efﬁciency. Keywords Nanocrystalline silicon  Microcrystalline silicon  Solar cells  Thin-ﬁlm solar cells  Fabrication  Light management Introduction Energy crisis and environment deterioration caused by burning of fossil fuels and other pollutants have been ranked among humanitys top issues. Clean and renew- able energy, including solar, wind, and hydroenergy techniques, becomes the impor- tant energy alternative all over the world. Photovoltaic technology, which converts solar light directly to electrical power, is one of the most promising candidates. Starting from A. E. Becquerels epochal discovery of the photovoltaic effect in 1839, 794 D. Wei et al. a continuous progress in the photovoltaic energy technique resulted in the announce- ment in 1954 by Chapin et al. of the ﬁrst usable solar cell based on silicon. Up to date, various solar cell technologies have been developed, and they are traditionally divided into three generations. The ﬁrst-generation solar cells refer to the crystalline silicon (c-Si) wafer-based technique utilizing mono- and multicrystalline silicon. These solar cells are the most established type of light-harvesting devices produced in the present-day photovoltaic industry. However, the c-Si solar cells feature signiﬁcant drawbacks restricting their wide applications. Speciﬁcally, high energy consumptions required for the forma- tions of highly pure c-Si wafers and the complex fabrication process of solar cells imply high costs of the devices and, hence, high costs of the cell-produced electric energy, as compared to the traditional fossil fuel routes. Therefore, the second- and third-generation solar cells based on thin ﬁlm technologies have become the primary focus of the present-day solar energy research efforts. The second-generation solar cells are usually based on hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H), hydrogenated nanocrystalline silicon (nc-Si:H), copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS), and cadmium telluride (CdTe). These devices are produced by applying thin-ﬁlm inorganic coatings onto inexpensive large-area substrates such as glass, stainless steel, or polymers. The core light-absorbing layers in these cells are usually very thin (several micrometer) ﬁlms, so that these devices show the distinct advantages such as small amounts of material required, low energy con- sumptions and carbon emissions in fabrication, and the resulting low production costs. Moreover, some other important advantages also arise including the possibil- ity of deposition over large-area substrates and simple techniques of mass produc- tion. In addition, these thin ﬁlm devices are very suitable for BIPV (building integrated photovoltaics) strategy, ﬂexible and portable instruments, etc. Silicon- free materials such as CIGS and CdTe result in relatively high energy conversion efﬁciency exceeding 20% (Polman et al. 2016), but the need in use of toxic elements and/or the lack of their availability limits their global applications. The third-generation solar cells are innovative photovoltaic devices fabricated by modern techniques; typical examples are hybrid organic-inorganic perovskite solar cells, dye-sensitized solar cells, organic solar cells, quantum dot solar cells (see Chaps. 24, Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells, and 26, Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells), etc. Although perov- skite solar cells have been hot spots with the highest efﬁciency above 20%, they often involve toxic materials and still suffer the stability issues when exposed to heat, continuous illumination, moisture atmospheres, etc. The other third-generation solar cells usually have low conversion efﬁciencies and/or poor stabilities (Polman et al. 2016). Silicon has ever been a base of one of the most promising photovoltaic technol- ogies. In fact, the amorphous silicon photovoltaic technology has been used in the last decades. The best initial efﬁciency reaching 16.3% (Yan et al. 2011) has been achieved for the triple-junction architecture involving amorphous silicon, nanocrys- talline silicon, and silicon alloys (mainly with germanium, Ge). In spite of the lower 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 795 efﬁciencies compared with CIGS and CdTe, silicon-based materials have their own advantages, namely: 1. Nearly inﬁnite stock of silicon material, as compared with relatively rare elements used in CIGS and CdTe cells; silicon could be an ideal material for the mass photovoltaic applications. 2. Silicon material is nontoxic and eco-friendly. 3. Silicon thin ﬁlm processes have been mature due to the long-standing develop- ment of the semiconductor manufacturing and liquid crystal display industries. Besides, according to the Shockley-Queisser (S-Q) detailed-balance model, the upper limit of conversion efﬁciency for a single-junction silicon solar cell approaches 30% (Polman et al. 2016). Therefore, there is still a large room and potential for further improvement of silicon thin-ﬁlm solar cells, and the hydroge- nated amorphous and nanocrystalline silicon structures and composites could be materials of the next-stage cheap, efﬁcient, mass-used solar cell energetics. Amorphous silicon (a-Si) ﬁrstly appeared as a light-absorbing material in silicon- based second-generation thin-ﬁlm solar cells (see Chap. 20, Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film). a-Si is composed of silicon atoms which are spatially arranged on a lattice that presents only short range order. The conventional amorphous silicon material deposited by a glow discharge usually contains some percentages of hydrogen atoms bonded to the amorphous silicon structure. This form of amorphous silicon is generally known as hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H). Some bonds are broken in this structure, thus resulting in the formation of so-called dangling bonds. Nevertheless, hydrogen can passivate a large part of these dangling bonds, signiﬁcantly improving the ﬁlm quality. The hydrogenated amorphous silicon has a bandgap of 1.7 eV and exhibits high light absorption coefﬁcients for the photons with energies above 1.7 eV. However, the insufﬁcient response in red and infrared light blocks the further efﬁciency improvement of a-Si:H solar cell. In addition, the hydrogenated amor- phous silicon cell suffers the light-induced degradation of efﬁciency which is so-called Staebler-Wronski effect (SWE). The stabilized efﬁciency, which is deﬁned as the efﬁciency measured after 1000 h exposure at 1 sun intensity at 50 C, is 7090% of the initial efﬁciency for the high-quality a-Si:H solar cell. Multijunction solar cell consisting of stacked a-Si:H top cell and hydrogenated amorphous silicon-germanium a-SiGe:H bottom cell with narrow bandgap is also widely studied to ensure absorption of the whole solar spectrum and thus boost cell efﬁciency. However, its production cost is still considerably high because germa- nium is exceedingly expensive and less abundant. Hydrogenated nanocrystalline silicon (nc-Si:H), sometimes also known as hydro- genated microcrystalline silicon (μc-SiH:H), is deﬁned as a complex material com- posed of nanoscale crystalline grains (typically 5 nm) and amorphous tissues, plus grain boundaries. The difference between nanocrystalline and polycrystalline silicon (poly-Si) (see Chap. 22, Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film) is that the amor- phous phase only exists in nc-Si rather than poly-Si. In addition, nanocrystalline 796 D. Wei et al. silicon also differs from the silicon nanocrystal material that consists of small nanocrystals (typically 5 nm) demonstrating quantum effects (see Chaps. 24, Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells and 26, Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells). Although nc-Si:H has a complex microstructure, its optical properties feature a marked crystalline characteristic, namely, an optical gap at 1.12 eV (like in the case of c-Si). As distinct from a-Si:H material which absorbs light up to 800 nm, the nc-Si:H structure absorbs light in a wider-range spectrum, extending up to 1100 nm. Thus, the nc-Si:H material has a stronger long wavelength response than a-Si:H material. The other merit of nc-Si:H-based solar cells is stability under long-time sunlight irradiation. Some nc-Si:H solar cells are also subject to light-induced degradations, but these degradations are much weaker and slower than most of a-Si:H solar cells. Furthermore, material costs of nc-Si:H ﬁlms are far lower than those of c-Si wafers because the required thickness of the absorber in nc-Si:H solar cell is two orders of magnitude smaller (typically 1  3 μm) than that of silicon wafer. In addition, material costs of nc-Si:H ﬁlms are also greatly lower than those of a-SiGe:H ﬁlms with costly Ge component. Therefore, the nc-Si:H material is considered as a low-cost alternative for the a-SiGe:H material in a silicon-based multijunction thin ﬁlm cell. The pioneering work for the ﬁrst nc-Si:H solar cells was ﬁrst reported in 1991 by G. Lucovsky et al. A complete nc-Si:H cell with an efﬁciency of 4.6% opened up a new area of photovoltaic development in 1994 (Meier et al. 1994). However, cell efﬁciency was limited by a low open-circuit voltage (Voc) and ﬁll factor (FF) in that early stage. In general, open-circuit voltage representing the presence of built-in electric ﬁeld is considered as a signiﬁcant prerequisite for solar cells. In the 1990s, the absorbers with a high (typically 70%) crystalline volume fraction were mostly investigated, since researches wished to improve cell efﬁciency by obtaining the high carrier mobility in large crystals. However, short-circuit current density (Jsc) was not improved, and the Voc was still limited to 500 mV (Meier et al. 1994). Further progresses were achieved in later years. Vetterl et al. reported that the nc-Si:H solar cell with a low crystalline volume fraction of 60% shows an improved Voc of 520 mV. The efﬁciency of 7.5% for a 2-μm-thick nc-Si:H single-junction solar cell and 12% for an a-Si:H/nc-Si:H stacked solar cell was achieved (Vetterl et al. 2000). The intrinsic layer of the best solar cell consists of the medium rather than largest grains. It was supposed that grain boundaries are well passivated by the increase in the fraction of amorphous phase, reducing bulk recombination and improving Voc. Thus, the concept of transition region with a typical crystalline volume fraction between 30% and 70% was adopted, and the best solar cells are often obtained in this region. The controlling interface passivation efforts contribute to the technological development toward higher Voc. Y. Mai reported a 10.3% solar cell with Voc of 570 mV by applying a hot-wire chemical vapor deposition (HWCVD )-deposited buffer layer between p/i interface (Mai et al. 2005). Later, van den Donker obtained a nc-Si:H solar cell with an efﬁciency of 9.8% and a Voc of 603 mV by combining 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 797 HWCVD-deposited buffer layer and SiH4 ﬂow proﬁling technique in 2007 (Van Den Donker et al. 2007). In recent years, light management strategies have been widely implemented to enhance light absorption for the Jsc improvement. First of all, one common strategy is to achieve light trapping by applying the nanometer- or micrometer-scale periodic or random texture on the surface of front/back electrode or even directly to the glass substrate by means of wet etching, lithography (plus dry etching), nanoimprint lithography, or photonic crystal. Secondly, the wide-bandgap materials such as silicon oxide (SiOx) and silicon carbide (SiCx) have been used as novel window layers to reduce the parasitic absorption losses of high-energy photons in a window layer. Then, another hot spot is to insert intermediate reﬂector (such as SiOx, ZnO, etc.) between the top and bottom cells of tandem solar cell to reﬂect the short wavelength light back to the top cell and enhance the overall light absorption inside it. However, the present efﬁciencies of nc-Si:H solar cells are still far lower than the theoretical efﬁciency limit (over 30%) according to the Shockley-Queisser (S-Q) detailed-balance model (Polman et al. 2016). The major challenge of commerciali- zation is how to achieve the high conversion efﬁciency with a high deposition rate and low process cost. Properties of Nanocrystalline Silicon In this section, material properties of the intrinsic and doped thin ﬁlms in nc-Si:H solar cells are introduced and discussed. The intrinsic materials are used to act as the light absorber, so that the structure with low defect density and impurity contami- nation is required to reduce the carrier recombination. The doped materials are used to form the n- and p-type layer on both sides of the intrinsic layer to form the junction, build up an internal electric ﬁeld, and form a good contact with the electrodes. Therefore, material properties of individual function layers are the bases of solar cell performance. The device-grade materials are required for solar cell application. The criteria for device-grade material depend on which part of the device the material is used for and its function in a solar cell. Properties of Intrinsic Materials The intrinsic nc-Si:H material acting as the core light-absorbing layer largely determines the general performance of solar cell. Therefore, the structural, optical, and electrical properties of the intrinsic nc-Si:H materials have been extensively investigated. Structural Properties Microtopography. A typical nc-Si:H is a complex material composed of crystalline and amorphous silicon phases plus grain boundaries. The crystallinity of Si:H ﬁlm 798 D. Wei et al. can be varied in a large scale and is determined by deposition conditions. Figure 1a shows that with the decrease in the degree of crystallinity of thin ﬁlm, the phase evolution occurs from the highly crystalline phase on the left-hand side to the prevailingly amorphous phase on the right-hand side. As mentioned above, the nc-Si:H materials which are most suitable for solar cell applications are the materials in the phase transition region in the middle of Fig. 1a. As seen, typical pencil-like conglomerates which are formed by nanocrystals, voids, and amorphous phase are represented by light gray polygon areas, white holes, and continuous dark gray area, respectively. Figure 1b shows a cross-sectional TEM micrograph of a typical nc-Si:H ﬁlm deposited on ﬂat sputtered ZnO:Al ﬁlm (Bailat et al. 2002). The unhomogeneous structure throughout its thickness is clearly observed, and the widely reported amorphous incubation layer appears at the bottom of the silicon thin ﬁlm. It is worth noting that this inhomogeneous structure has been signiﬁcantly improved in recent years. As shown in Fig. 11b, the nc-Si:H ﬁlms with the relatively homogeneous structures have been fabricated by inserting a seed layer (diminishing the bottom incubation layer), controlling the crystallinity uniformity by hydrogen dilution proﬁling technique, etc. Crystalline volume fraction and phase transition. According to the fraction of crystalline phase, the nc-Si:H materials can be grouped into three categories: (i) The highly crystalline silicon with large crystal columns throughout the ﬁlm (ii) Near the transition region from crystalline to amorphous phase where crystal columns are smaller and a large fraction of amorphous phase and grain bound- aries are present between the columns (iii) Dominant amorphous matrix with embedded small crystallites It is widely reported that the nc-Si:H solar cells with the highest efﬁciencies consist of light-absorbing materials prepared close to the transition region. Vetterl et al. (2000) reported that one important requirement for the device-grade nc-Si:H Fig. 1 (a) Schematic diagram of microstructures of nc-Si:H thin ﬁlm. From left to right, the phase of nc-Si:H ﬁlm evolves from highly crystalline to prevailingly amorphous phase. (b) TEM micrograph of a typical nc-Si:H layer deposited on the ﬂat sputtered ZnO:Al ﬁlm. (Reproduced from Vetterl et al. (2000) and Bailat et al. (2002). Copyright (2000 and 2002), with permissions from Elsevier) 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 799 material is the intermediate crystallinity (30  70%) of the absorber. The possible reason for these results is that the large volume of amorphous tissues passivates the defects at surfaces of crystalline phase, reducing the overall defect density and the resultant carrier recombination rate. The crystallinity of nc-Si:H ﬁlm is widely characterized by Raman spectroscopy. The characteristic peak corresponding to the transverse optical (TO) mode of c-Si is at 520 cm1, whereas amorphous band appears at around 480 cm1 in Raman spectrum. For the qualitative analysis, the spectrum can be deconvoluted into two Gaussian functions and one Lorenzian-Gaussian mixed function near 480, 510, and 520 cm1, as shown in the inset Fig. 2. The intermediate phase evidenced by the function at 510 cm1 is attributed to a defective part of the crystalline phase, which originates from crystallites with diameters less than 10 nm, as well as a silicon wurzite phase resulting from twins or bond dilation at grain boundaries (Rath 2003). The degree of crystallinity is estimated by crystalline volume fraction (Xc) deﬁned as follows: Xc ¼ Ig þ Igb   = Ig þ Igb þ Ia   , (1) where Ia, Igb, and Ig are the integrated intensity of peak near 480, 510, and 520 cm1, respectively. Fig. 2 Series of Raman spectra of Si:H ﬁlms deposited by ICP-CVD on glass substrate at different discharge powers. The inset is the single Raman spectrum deconvoluted into two Gaussian functions and one Lorenzian-Gaussian mixed function near 480, 510, and 520 cm1. (Reprinted with permission from Wei et al. (2013). Copyright (2013)  IOP Publishing Ltd) 800 D. Wei et al. The abovementioned follows that a wide process window for transition region is required to fabricate the high-efﬁciency nc-Si:H solar cell. Figure 2 illustrates the Raman spectra of Si:H ﬁlms deposited by inductively coupled plasma CVD (ICP-CVD) on glass substrates at different discharge powers (Wei et al. 2013). As discharge power increases, the feature TO mode shifts from 480 cm1 to almost 520 cm-1, indicating the phase transition from a-Si:H to nc-Si:H. The similar phase transition is commonly achieved by varying silane concentration, RF power density, substrate temperature, process pressure, etc., in plasma-enhanced CVD (PECVD) or other deposition techniques (Rath 2003). In addition, the crystallographic orientation of the crystalline grain is also believed to greatly affect the nc-Si:H material properties and cell performance. It is widely reported that a preferred (220) oriented growth is very important for solar cells with the best efﬁciencies, since silicon ﬁlms with (220) facets feature electri- cally inactive (220)-tilt boundary and compact columnar structure (Rath 2003). However, Schicho et al. (2012) reported that the tandem solar cell with the efﬁciency above 12% exhibits no preferential orientation in the absorber. It was also stated that the preferential orientation of the intrinsic material is not an essential prerequisite to achieve device-grade material for good solar cell performance. Therefore, the effect of the preferential orientation on material quality and device performance is still a controversial issue. Incubation layer. The deposition of nc-Si:H thin ﬁlm results in an inhomoge- neous growth throughout the ﬁlm thickness. The initially deposited layer is usually amorphous phase resting on a foreign substrate, and the so-called incubation phase is deposited ﬁrst on the bare substrate before the localized phase transformation, namely, nucleation, takes place. Once nucleation starts, crystalline phase begins growing around it. A cross-sectional micrograph in Fig. 1b shows a typical incuba- tion layer at the bottom of the thin ﬁlm. Several models for the nucleation process have been proposed, but the exact physical mechanism of nucleation is still unclear. To avoid formation of unwanted incubation layer, a two-step deposition process is usually utilized. At the ﬁrst step, a thin highly crystalline seed layer is deposited with high hydrogen dilution. For example, the ﬁrst step could be depositing a seed layer at SiH4/H2 = 0.33/99 sccm by PECVD, while the second step is the ﬁlm growth at SiH4/H2 = 1.2/99 sccm on the top of the seed layer (Rath 2003). The two-step process can also be replaced by a single process with hydrogen proﬁling, in which the hydrogen dilution is continuously varied from high to low values to control crystallinity of the ﬁlm. Bond conﬁguration and ﬁlm compactness. The Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy is widely applied to analyze the Si-H and Si-O bonding conﬁgurations and compactness of nc-Si:H ﬁlms. Typically, the FTIR spectrum of Si:H ﬁlm consists of four main absorption regions: the band at 630 cm1 related to SiHx (x = 1, 2, 3) wagging or rocking modes, a doublet near 850 and 890 cm1 related to SiH2 and (SiH2)n bending modes, the peak at 20002150 cm1 related to SiHx stretching modes, and the band at 9501150 cm1 related to the SiO stretching mode (Klein et al. 2005). The critical absorption band is the Si-H stretching mode in the range of 20002150 cm1, which indicates the hydrogen conﬁgurations of Si:H 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 801 materials. An absorption band centered at 2000 cm1 corresponding to hydrogen in mono-hydride bonds (Si-H) can be typically observed in device-quality nc-Si:H, whereas hydrogen bonded in either multihydrides (SiH2 or SiH3) or internal voids contributes at around 2100 cm1 (Klein et al. 2005). Therefore, low signals around 2100 cm1 are expected from compact grown material. The microstructure factor (R*) deﬁned as a ratio of the SiH stretching mode intensity at 2100 cm1 to the total intensity of the SiH stretching modes is often used to evaluate the compactness of the Si:H materials. For nc-Si:H, a dominant absorption band at around 2000 cm1 and the resultant low R* values are desirable. The Si-O absorption band between 800 and 1200 cm1 can also be applied to study the compactness of the nc-Si:H ﬁlms. In general case, Si-O doublet absorption bands are interpreted as an indication of less dense material, since oxygen incorpo- ration would occur in a less dense Si:H ﬁlm. These bands consist of the Si-O-Si asymmetric stretching doublet between 960 and 1150 cm1 and another peak near 880 cm1, attributed to the O3-Si-H conﬁguration (Klein et al. 2005). Hydrogen content. FTIR and secondary ion mass spectrometry (SIMS) are widely used to measure hydrogen content in the nc-Si:H ﬁlm. The bonded hydrogen content (CH) can be evaluated by the absorption band at 630 cm1 in FTIR spectrum as follows: NH ¼ AI630, (2) where A = 2.1  1019 cm3 and I630 are the integrated absorption of the corresponding band (Schropp and Zeman 1998). The peak around 630 cm1 includes the rocking modes of bonded hydrogen in every possible conﬁguration, so the total amount of the bonded hydrogen atoms is accessed. Hydrogen content (CH) of nc-Si:H ﬁlm can be obtained through the following equation: CH ¼ NH= NHþNSi ð Þ, (3) where a value of 5  1022 cm3 for the silicon density (NSi) is being commonly accepted (Schropp and Zeman 1998). SIMS measurement can also be used to conﬁrm hydrogen contents in Si:H ﬁlms. In general, all kinds of H can be measured in the form of sputtered ions in SIMS measurement. Hydrogen plays an important role in improving the quality of the Si:H ﬁlms by passivating dangling bonds and decreasing defect density. As a rule, hydrogen content is typically 10% or less in the PECVD-deposited nc-Si:H ﬁlms. However, the nc-Si:H ﬁlms with a low (3%) hydrogen content can also exhibit high photo- conductivities of 104 S/cm and photosensitivites of up to 130 (Kosku and Miyazaki 2006). Therefore, the optimum value of the hydrogen content is still a matter of controversy for device-quality nc-Si:H materials. However, extraordinarily high hydrogen contents may lead to light-induced degradation of solar cell, which will be discussed in section Light-Induced Degradation. Impurity contamination. One prerequisite for the high-efﬁciency Si:H solar cells is the low contamination level of external impurities in the light absorber. Oxygen 802 D. Wei et al. and nitrogen impurities create donor states in nc-Si:H and thus result in the increase in spin density and dark conductivity, plus the decrease in photo-response (Kilper et al. 2009). SIMS and FTIR are often used to characterize impurity concentrations in nc-Si:H ﬁlms. In general, oxygen concentration should be limited to 1018 cm3 in the device-quality nc-Si:H ﬁlms (Rath 2003). Thus, a gas puriﬁer is often installed near gas inlet to reduce the oxygen contaminations from the gas supply lines. Oxygen impurities can aggregate at grain boundaries or in amorphous domains, since the structural disorder allows oxygen atoms to readily ﬁt into the structures, decreasing the total system energy (Kamei and Wada 2004). The defects formed by carbon are less electrically active, but they cannot be negligible because of their ramiﬁcations on oxygen precipitations. Both oxygen and carbon can precipitate at grain boundaries and dislocations and thus change their electrical behaviors. Defects. Lattice defects originate from surfaces of nanocrystals and grain bound- aries, as well as amorphous phase. Defect density cannot be neglected, although hydrogen incorporation can passivate a considerable amount of the dangling bonds. Defects participate in bulk and interface recombinations of carriers, strongly affect- ing material quality and photovoltaic properties. In addition, some defects such as cracks and voids would lead to electrical shunts (Python et al. 2009). According to their origins, defects can be divided into intrinsic defects and impurity-related defects. The intrinsic defects usually originate from the dangling bonds. It has been found that one type of mid-gap defects attributed to the dangling bonds at column boundaries exhibits g = 2.0052 in electron spin resonance (ESR) results, where g is a dimensionless quantity which characterizes the magnetic moment and gyromagnetic ratio of the defect. This g value is slightly lower than the dangling bond line of amorphous silicon, but they have the same width. How- ever, the silicon dangling bond centers with g = 2.0055, which is the same as that in amorphous silicon, were also identiﬁed in poly- and nc-Si:H materials in many other reports, and these dangling bond centers are randomly oriented in nc-Si:H materials (Rath 2003). Apart from the intrinsic defects, it was reported that the impurity- related dangling bond centers also exist in nc-Si:H materials. A center at g = 2.0043 is related to dangling bonds in oxygen-rich regions, while the other detected center at g = 2.0026 is considered to be oxygen-related and originates from oxygen contam- ination in the deposition chamber (Rath 2003). Not all the defects (g = 2.0052) attributed to dangling bonds at the column boundaries may be active as recombination centers if they are remote from the main current paths. It was found that the nc-Si:H ﬁlm is already suitable for use in solar cells if its ESR defect density does not exceed 1017 cm3. Therefore, the ESR defect density (1017 cm3) has been a criterion for device-grade nc-Si:H material for solar cell applications. Besides ESR, subbandgap absorption spectra measured by the photothermal deﬂection spectroscopy (PDS), the constant photocurrent method (CPM), and the following Fourier transform photocurrent spectroscopy (FTPS) are used for defect characterization (Rath 2003; Meillaud et al. 2009). For example, FTPS can be used to evaluate the quality of intrinsic material on a complete nc-Si:H solar cell. The absorption coefﬁcients of intrinsic material for energies ranging 0.61.6 eV can be 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 803 measured by using FTPS technology. The absorption at 0.8 eV is usually considered as the defect-related absorption, so it is widely used to estimate the density of recombination centers within the bandgap. Optical Properties Absorption coefﬁcient. Typical absorption coefﬁcients of a-Si:H, nc-Si:H, and c-Si material measured by PDS are shown in Fig. 3 (Vetterl et al. 2000). The absorption coefﬁcients of nc-Si:H ﬁlm are much lower than those of the a-Si:H material in the high-energy range (1.7 eV), while the result is opposite in the low-energy range (1.11.7 eV), in which the absorption coefﬁcients of nc-Si:H are similar to those of c-Si material. Therefore, the stronger response to red and near-infrared light in nc-Si: H is complementary to the light response of a-Si:H. Thus, both of them can be applied together to absorb the different parts of sunlight in a more effective way in a-Si:H/nc-Si:H tandem solar cells. Absorption coefﬁcients are often estimated by measuring optical transmittance spectrum of the absorber using ultraviolet-visible-near-infrared (UV-Vis-NIR) spec- trophotometer. Absorption coefﬁcients can be calculated according to the equation T = exp(-αd) where T is the transmittance, d is the thickness of the ﬁlms, and α is the absorption coefﬁcient in the measured transmittance spectrum. However, many UV-Vis-NIR spectrophotometers cannot ensure accurate measurement of the trans- mission of near-infrared light with absorption coefﬁcients below 104 cm1. Thus, the measured absorption coefﬁcients of the light (photo energy 2 eV) are usually higher than the real values, thus resulting in the false estimation of absorption coefﬁcients and optical bandgaps. The accurate measurement for the lower absorp- tion region should be performed by PDS, FTPS, or CPM. In general, the absorption coefﬁcients of both a-Si:H and nc-Si:H ﬁlms monotonously increase with the increase in photon energy. Some typical absorption coefﬁcients at certain Fig. 3 Typical absorption coefﬁcients of single crystalline silicon (c-Si), hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H), and hydrogenated nanocrystalline silicon (nc-Si:H) materials, as measured by PDS. (Reprinted from Vetterl et al. (2000). Copyright (2000), with permission from Elsevier) 804 D. Wei et al. wavelengths (or photon energies) are selected to estimate the light-absorbing ability of the photovoltaic materials. Optical bandgap. The optical bandgap is critical for solar cell performance because it determines the wavelength range of the absorbed light in the absorber. One common deﬁnition of an optical bandgap is Taucs optical bandgap (Eg) which is estimated from transmittance data by considering Taucs plot according to the equation (Tauc et al. 1966): ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ αE p ¼ A E  Eg   (4) where A is the joint optical density of states, E is the photon energy, and Eg is Taucs optical bandgap. While featuring a considerable amount of the amorphous phases, the nc-Si:H material at the transition region still demonstrates the low optical bandgap which is nearly the same as that of c-Si (1.1 eV). The other deﬁnition of the optical bandgap is E04 or E05, and the iso-absorption value of E04 or E05 is the photo energy at which the absorption coefﬁcient has a value of 104 or 105 cm1, respectively. Taucs optical bandgap is often unreasonable (more than 1.1 eV) when it is calculated by using the false transmittance data measured by some UV-Vis-NIR spectrophotometers with low measuring accuracy in the near- infrared range. In fact, the bandgap of nc-Si:H cannot be widened unless crystal size is controlled within 5 nm to trigger quantum conﬁnement effect of carriers inside. The bandgap can be reliably measured by PDS, CPM, or FTPS (Rath 2003; Meillaud et al. 2009). Electrical Properties Electrical properties of the intrinsic absorber are critical for the photo carrier transport, signiﬁcantly affecting the cell performance. Dark conductivity. Dark conductivity (σd) is the material conductivity measured without light illumination. Speciﬁcally, the conductivity mentioned here is the lateral conductivity measured parallel to substrate surface. The lateral conductivity is a conventional parameter used to estimate the electrical and photovoltaic properties of the nc-Si:H ﬁlms. In the measurement, two evaporated aluminum bars with an interval of 0.5 or 1 mm are deposited to form the coplanar electrodes on the top surface of the Si:H ﬁlm. After annealing to form ohmic contact, dark current I is measured by picoammeter by applying voltage V between the two metallic elec- trodes. The σd value is then calculated through the following equation: σd T ð Þ ¼ IW= AV ð Þ ¼ IW= ALd V  IR0 ð Þ ð Þ, (5) where W is the gap between the electrodes, L is their length, R0 is the reference resistance to protect the picoammeter, and d is ﬁlm thickness that is typically about 1 μm for the nc-Si:H samples. For the device-grade material, the dark conductivity should be smaller than 1.5  107 S/cm (Rath 2003; Schropp and Zeman 1998). Photoconductivity: Photoconductivity is often measured by the steady-state photoconductivity (SSPC) technique that involves the same electrode conﬁguration 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 805 as for the dark conductivity measurements. Photoconductivity (σp) corresponds to the measured conductivity under the standard illumination conditions with one sun intensity (100 mW/cm2). For the device-grade material, photoconductivity should be larger than 1.5  105 S/cm or 2  105 S/cm for a ﬁlm with the thickness of 1 μm (Rath 2003; Schropp and Zeman 1998). Photo-response. The σp value is dramatically inﬂuenced by the position of the Fermi level. Although σp can be sometimes very high, the corresponding σd may also be high since the Fermi level shifts due to impurities. Thus, σp value must be examined jointly with σd, so that only samples exhibiting high σp values and low σd are suitable for use in solar devices. The quality of photovoltaic material can be quantiﬁed by photo-response (S), which is simply deﬁned as the ratio of σp to σd. For the device-grade material, photo-response should be larger than 100 (Schropp and Zeman 1998; Rath 2003). Activation energy. The large photo-response indicates the good photovoltaic properties of the nc-Si:H material, but it is independent of the position of the Fermi level. Activation energy of the dark conductivity is equal to the energy difference between the conduction band edge and the Fermi level for electrons, or the valence band edge for holes. The activation energy (Ea) can be obtained by measuring σd as a function of temperature Ts, as they are linked by the equation: σd Ts ð Þ ¼ σ0exp Ea=kTs ð Þ, (6) where k is the Boltzmann constant and σ0 is dark conductivity pre-factor. For an intrinsic material, the Fermi level should be at the middle of its bandgap. However, Fermi level is slightly above the middle position of the bandgap and exhibits weak n-type semiconductor properties with the Ea at around 0.4 eV, due to the unintentional oxygen incorporation which leads to n-type doping (Schropp and Zeman 1998). This behavior can be eliminated by avoiding oxygen contamination or slightly doping boron to compensate the n-type. For the device-grade intrinsic material, activation energy should be in the range between 0.53 eV and 0.57 eV (Schropp and Zeman 1998). Assuming that the bandgap of the material is known, the value of the activation energy can be used as the indication of doping level or the absence of the unwanted impurities. However, if more impurities incorporate and compensate each other, the high activation energy would provide a misinterpreted indication of the high-quality intrinsic material. Mobility-lifetime product. The SSPC experiments allow the evaluation of mobility-lifetime product μτ, which mainly characterizes the transport properties of the majority carriers. For the device-grade intrinsic material, the mobility-lifetime product should be at least 107 cm2/V for the monochromatic red light at 600 nm (Schropp and Zeman 1998). In summary, the criteria for the device-grade intrinsic nc-Si:H thin ﬁlm for solar cell applications are listed in Table 1. 806 D. Wei et al. Properties of the Doped Materials Doped nc-Si:H thin ﬁlms are used as n- and p-type layers in solar cell to build up an internal electric ﬁeld for carrier drift and form a good contact with transparent and conductive oxide (TCO) or metal electrodes. The ﬁrstly deposited thin doping layer acts as a seed layer for the subsequent thicker intrinsic layer; this means that the doped layer should feature high crystalline volume fraction. Besides, the p-layer should also act as a window layer of a solar cell. In addition, the heavily doped layer may also be used to form tunneling junction in multijunction solar cells. Hence, the doped layer should have high doping efﬁciency, high crystalline volume fraction, and low parasitic absorption losses. The nc-Si:H layer can be doped to become n-type layer by mixing phosphine (PH3) with silane or p-type doped by adding diborane (B2H6), boron triﬂuoride (BF3), or trimethyl-boron [TMB, B(CH3)3] into silane during the deposition. Due to the presence of crystalline phases, it is easier to dope nc-Si:H and activate the dopants in it, than in a-Si:H. Thus, the Fermi level can be pushed closer to conduction or valence band edge in the nc-Si:H material than in a-Si:H. The activation energy of the a-Si:H structure is usually above 200 meV, while activation energy of the nc-Si:H can be 50 meVor less. Therefore, the higher conductivity can be achieved in the nc-Si:H ﬁlms with the same thickness. The dark conductivity can approach 20 S/cm in a 70-nm-thick n-type doped nc-Si:H ﬁlm, while this parameter can reach 1.5 S/cm if the p-type doping is implemented in a 300-nm-thick nc-Si:H ﬁlm (Schropp and Zeman 1998). However, a thinner (around 20 nm or less) p-type and n-type (tens of nanometer) doped layers are usually required in the nc-Si:H solar cells. The conductivity of the thinner doped layer would be several orders lower than that of the thicker one. Thin nc-Si:H ﬁlm also faces the problems of incubation in the initially deposited layer on a foreign substrate. Therefore, the key factor is to deposit the seed layer with a higher crystallinity, and even the top doped layer still needs the high crystallinity to achieve high conductivity. Compared with n-type doped layer, it is harder to promote the crystallinity of p-doped layer because boron hampers the nucleation and growth of crystals. Several approaches have been proposed to promote the nucleation of crystalline phase. These layers are usually prepared under the condition of higher Table 1 Criteria for the device-grade intrinsic nc-Si:H thin film for solar cell applications Key parameter of material property Requirement Crystalline volume fraction (Raman) 3070% Density of states (ESR) 1  1017 cm3 Optical bandgap 1.1 eV Dark conductivity 1.5  107 S/cm Photoconductivity 1.5  105 S/cm Photo-response 100 Activation energy 0.530.57 eV Mobility-lifetime product 107 cm2/V 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 807 hydrogen dilution (H2/SiH4  100), higher substrate temperatures, or higher dis- charge power density. The other advanced methods such as the use of ﬂuorine- containing gases, layer-by-layer deposition, or very high frequency (VHF)-PECVD can further promote the doping efﬁciency and the resultant conductivity. It is stressed that high-density plasma techniques such as ICP-CVD, microwave CVD, and ECR-CVD have been successfully used to fabricate the conductive doped layers for solar cell applications. There are no standard criteria for the device-grade doped materials, but some requirements can still be referred. For example, the 20 nm p-type doped nc-Si:H layer with good cell performance usually has the conductivity of 102 S/cm and activation energy of around 60 meV, while the high-quality 70 nm n-type doped nc-Si:H layer often exhibits the conductivity of 20 S/cm and activation energy of around 100 meV (Schropp and Zeman 1998). Aside from nc-Si:H, silicon alloys such as doped SiOx and SiCx have also been developed as the doped layer and window layer instead of nc-Si:H layer. These materials will be discussed in detail in section Window Layer. Fabrication of Nanocrystalline Silicon Films Methods of the nc-Si:H thin ﬁlm fabrication are similar to the mainstream deposition methods of a-Si:H thin ﬁlms, which have already proved to be mature enough in semiconductor and display industries. The nc-Si:H thin ﬁlms can be deposited by various chemical vapor deposition (CVD) and physical vapor deposition (PVD) methods. It is worth noting that there are two basic requirements for the nc-Si:H depositions. Firstly, a high deposition rate is needed for depositing the intrinsic layer of the nc-Si:H ﬁlm. Owing to the less absorption coefﬁcients compared with the a-Si, the intrinsic light-absorbing layer of nc-Si:H solar cell is thicker (13 μm) than that of the a-Si (500 nm). Therefore, faster deposition is preferred for low-cost com- mercialization. The high-density plasma technologies are also proposed and used for this purpose. Secondly, a low growth temperature (600 C) is an important criterion since hydrogen severely effuses at 600 C or higher, while low-temperature processes with the abundant hydrogen can provide the passivation of grain bound- aries and thus greatly improve the material quality. Mainstream Deposition Methods The chemical vapor deposition (CVD) is the most widely used method for the nc-Si: H deposition. All three mainstream deposition ways such as PECVD, VHF-PECVD, and HWCVD are essentially the CVD methods. Up to now, a large portion of the nc-Si:H thin-ﬁlm solar cells with the highest efﬁciencies are fabricated by these three methods. 808 D. Wei et al. PECVD In 1965, Sterling and Swann ﬁrstly used the glow discharge technique, also known as PECVD, to deposit thin silicon ﬁlms with the incorporated hydrogen. The nc-Si:H ﬁlms are now commonly deposited by PECVD. In this method, a glow discharge is excited by applying a radio-frequency (RF) signal at the standard 13.56 MHz frequency between the parallel plate conﬁguration, and thin ﬁlm is deposited from plasma to a solid state onto substrate by chemical reactions in plasma sustained in the reactive gases. Figure 4 shows a typical schematic diagram of the RF-PECVD deposition system. Due to the electromagnetic interaction of the charged particles with each other and the external ﬁelds, both electrons and ions are accelerated in the electric ﬁeld. Due to higher energies and smaller masses, it is easier for electrons to diffuse toward the electrodes and chamber wall than ions, leaving the plasma bulk positively charged. When there is a separation of a large number of electrons from positive ions in the plasma reactor, the neutrality is violated, and the electric ﬁeld arises between the positive- and negative-charge layers, like in a parallel plate capacitor. All the surfaces contacting the plasma carry a negative charge, and the localized electric ﬁeld between surfaces and plasma bulk creates a thin sheath. All species reach the sheath by diffusion, and the charged species are then driven by electric ﬁeld in the sheath. The energy of ion approaching growth surface is determined by sheath Fig. 4 Schematic diagram of the radio-frequency PECVD deposition system 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 809 potential. The ions bombard the growth surface and thus affect the growth and the resultant material properties of the nc-Si:H thin ﬁlm. Silicon-based radicals are considered as the main precursors for the nc-Si:H growth. It is widely reported that SiH3 is the main precursor for the device-quality ﬁlms, while reactive radicals (SiH, SiH2, etc.) and higher silane radicals (Si2H5, Si3H8, etc.) are considered as hindrances to the high-quality nc-Si:H deposition. The atomic hydrogen ﬂux reaching the growing surface plays an important role in the crystal nucleation. In addition, ion bombardment also affects the ﬁlm deposition. High-energy ions deteriorate nucleation process and increase the defect density, whereas high ion ﬂux enhances the surface diffusion of impinging species and yields good crystallinity (Rath 2003). The nc-Si:H deposition process includes complex gas reactions and surface reactions which are controlled by the deposition parameters such as RF power density, gas composition, gas pressure, substrate temperature, electrode geometry, etc. The deposition conditions should be controlled within certain ranges that are desirable for high-quality nc-Si:H growth. The nc-Si:H ﬁlms are commonly depos- ited under the condition of high hydrogen dilution and low gas pressure. The nc-Si:H can be formed by diluting silane in hydrogen at a ratio of H2/SiH4 = 20 or more combined with high RF power density. High hydrogen ﬂux approaching growth surface improves the surface mobilities of precursors and yields the nucleations of crystals. The gas pressure range is usually maintained between 0.5 Torr and 2 Torr. RF power density is often set in the range of 10100 mW/cm2, while higher power density is desirable for higher deposition rate. However, the rapid reactions at too high power can create the silicon polyhydride powders that contaminate the growing Si ﬁlm. Substrate temperature is usually set between 150 C and 350 C. Lower temper- ature generally hinders precursor diffusion and ﬁlm-forming reactions on growing surface and thus deteriorates the ﬁlm quality (Rath 2003), while less hydrogen is incorporated at higher substrate temperature and may lead to the poorer passivation effect of hydrogen on nc-Si:H thin ﬁlm. The electrode spacing in PECVD is usually set between 1 and 5 cm for the nc-Si:H deposition; larger spacing makes it easier to maintain the plasma, while small spacing is more desirable for the uniform deposition. A drawback of the conventional PECVD is the relatively low deposition rate of the nc-Si:H ﬁlm, usually not exceeding 0.5 nm/s. Another deposition method called HPD (high-pressure depletion) was proposed by the ETL group (Guo et al. 1998) to enhance the growth rate of the nc-Si:H ﬁlm. In HPD, a high gas pressure is set to achieve the high radical generation rate (high growth rate) and ensure low plasma potential (low ion energy), which can reduce the high-energy ion bombardment to the growth surfaces. However, this technique features low atomic hydrogen density hindering the crystallization due to the annihilation reaction H + SiH4 ! SiH3 + H2. This disadvantage can be compensated by the deposition in a depletion regime, which can be achieved using a high RF power. Using HPD method, a high deposi- tion rate of 0.93 nm/s (Guo et al. 1998) was obtained with low defect density and high crystallinity, and this deposition rate was then further promoted up to at least 810 D. Wei et al. 1.5 nm/s (Rath 2003). However, the considerable amount of dusts are easily formed in HDP regime so that microvoids appear in the nc-Si:H ﬁlm, degrading the material quality and device performance. VHF-PECVD VHF-PECVD has the same conﬁguration and work principle with 13.56 MHz RF PECVD. The higher excitation frequency (20110 MHz) in VHF-PECVD is gener- ally applied, while the best nc-Si:H is often obtained around 50110 MHz. The shift to higher excitation frequencies modiﬁes the shape of the electron energy distribution function (EEDF) in plasma. As the frequency increases, the electron density increases while electron temperature decreases, which means that the average electron energy drops. The ion density in the plasma is determined by the electron density, whereas the kinetic energies of the ions are determined by the electron temperature. As a result, sheath potential is reduced, and thus the maximum ion energy at the substrate is dropped with the increasing frequency. This leads to the bombardments of lower-energetic ions at the growing surface at the higher frequen- cies. On the other hand, the higher electron density with the increasing frequency results in the higher ion ﬂux approaching the growth surface. Compared to standard PECVD, one key to the success of VHF-PECVD is that higher excitation frequency enables researchers to deposit the nc-Si:H ﬁlms at higher rates while retaining the good material qualities. In addition, VHF allows the use of higher power densities in the powder-free deposition conditions. Up to now, a larger portion of nc-Si:H solar cells with the highest efﬁciencies have been fabricated by VHF-PECVD. VHF technique combined with HPD method could further promote the deposition rate. AIST group (Matsui et al. 2003) reported cell efﬁciencies of 8.2% at 2.1 nm/s (7 Torr) and 7.9% at 3 nm/s (8 Torr) at 70100 MHz, although problems of inhomogeneity appeared when cells were fabricated in large-scale areas. The high rate obtained by VHF plasma has two explanations: (1) The high excitation frequency increases the electron density and decreases the electron tem- perature. Thus, a higher density of low-temperature electrons collides with silane molecules and generates the higher density of precursors, enhancing the deposition rate. (2) The high deposit rate can also be attributed to the high ion ﬂux. Higher frequency increases the ion ﬂux reaching the growth surface and shifts the EEDF toward lower energy (Heintze and Zedlitz 1996). High ion ﬂux with low energy is thought to enhance surface diffusion of the impinging species, promote the crystal- lization (Rath 2003), and enhance the deposition rate. Meanwhile, the high quality of nc-Si:H by VHF-PECVD is usually attributed to low-energy ion bombardments on the growth surface. Suppression of high-energy ions on the growth surface is thought to be the effective way to improve the crystallinity and hinder the defect formations in nc-Si:H thin ﬁlm. However, there are still two principal challenges to applying VHF deposition on a large-scale manufacturing. (1) Nonuniform deposition on a large-area substrate. RF standing wave effect is formed on the electrode when the electrode size is compa- rable to the half-wavelength of RF wave. (2) Power coupling. It is difﬁcult to couple VHF power from the generator to the large-area electrodes. To date, these two 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 811 challenges are still open issues. But it is hopeful to solve these issues by using reasonable design of deposition system and selected process in the future. HWCVD The hot-wire chemical vapor deposition (HWCVD), also known as the catalytic chemical vapor deposition (CAT-CVD), is also used for the nc-Si:H ﬁlm deposition. In HWCVD, silicon thin ﬁlms are deposited upon catalytic decomposition of the reactant gases (silane/hydrogen mixture) at the surface of a resistively heated ﬁlament at the low substrate temperatures. A setup for the HWCVD system is similar to that of PECVD except that one of RF electrode plates is replaced with a heated ﬁlament; Fig. 5 shows the schematic diagram of the cross section of a typical HWCVD setup. The wire that is made of tungsten or tantalum is usually used as the heated ﬁlament. The cross section diameter of a typical ﬁlament wire is between 0.25 and 0.5 mm (Schropp and Zeman 1998). The ﬁlament is resistively heated up to 15002000 C by an AC or a DC current. The substrate is placed a few centimeters away from the ﬁlament. In the HWCVD process, reactant gases are supplied to the chamber and then catalytically excited or decomposed into species by the heated ﬁlament. The silicon radicals then diffuse inside the chamber and deposit onto a substrate heated to an elevated temperature between 150 C and 450 C (Rath 2003). Fig. 5 Schematic diagram of the cross-sectional view of a typical HWCVD setup 812 D. Wei et al. In the HWCVD process, primary gas reactions are the catalytic dissociations of the gas molecules (SiH4 and H2) on the hot ﬁlament surfaces to Si and H radicals, which are immediately released if the ﬁlament temperature is high enough and diffuse throughout the gas phase. Before approaching the growth surface, they may react with other molecules or radicals to form the secondary gas reactions if the mean free path between collisions is shorter than the ﬁlament-substrate distance. The main secondary gas reactions are the insertion and hydrogen abstraction reactions between Si and H radicals with SiH4 molecules: Si þ SiH4 ! HSiSiH 3 (7) H þ SiH4 ! SiH3 þ H2 (8) These secondary reactions are exothermic without energy barrier. The reaction rates have the same order as the collision rates of Si radicals with SiH4 molecules. One product of the reaction in Eq. 8 is the less reactive silane radical SH3 which cannot react with SiH4 or H2 molecules in the gas phase. As the major precursors, the stable SH3 radicals are very important for the growth of nc-Si:H thin ﬁlm and the resultant material quality. Finally, the nc-Si:H ﬁlms are nucleated and grown by surface reactions. The nc-Si:H solar cells prepared by the HWCVD method have demonstrated the high efﬁciencies which are comparable to those of high-efﬁciency solar cells prepared by the conventional PECVD. The most remarkable feature of the HWCVD process is the lack of ions. The electrons emitted from the ﬁlament usually have too low energies to ionize the gas molecules and radicals. In any case, the ion bombardment in the HWCVD technique, if any, is much lower than in the other deposition methods. The absence of strong ion bombardments is widely considered as a large advantage of the HWCVD. The roughly ion-free deposition condition is believed to reduce the damage at the device interfaces induced by high-energy ion bombardments, resulting in the higher Voc (600 mV) (Van Den Donker et al. 2007). However, it is also thought that the absence of ion bombardments limits the further improvement of the HWCVD- fabricated solar cells. Few ion bombardments would result in the low density of nc-Si:H material, while a ﬂux of ions with moderate energies could be beneﬁcial for the densiﬁcation of the growing nc-Si:H ﬁlm (Rath 2003). The HWCVD technique still needs to overcome several main challenges such as large-area nonuniformity, ﬁlament lifetime and aging, ﬁlament contaminations, and the possible ﬁlament radiation-induced degradation of ﬁlm quality. Alternative Deposition Methods To date, fast deposition of the high-efﬁciency nc-Si:H solar cells is still a challenge for the present mainstream deposition techniques. Some emerging alternative high- density plasma techniques such as electron cyclotron resonance (ECR), microwave plasma, and inductively coupled plasma have been introduced for the fast deposi- tions of nc-Si:H ﬁlms. 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 813 Microwave CVD In the microwave CVD (MWCVD) process, microwaves are coupled into the reactor via a dielectric window such as quartz to transfer their energies to the electrons, which then transfer energies to gas molecules through collisions, so that gas mole- cules are decomposed to generate active species and the nc-Si:H ﬁlms are ﬁnally deposited. MWCVD can generate the high-density plasma (1011  1012 cm3) at the low electron temperature of 10 eV (Rath 2003). Compared with conventional PECVD, MWCVD with the higher plasma density can be used to fabricate the nc-Si:H ﬁlms at the lower hydrogen dilutions. Jones et al. (2000) applied a gas jet deposition technique to deposit the nc-Si:H ﬁlms. This method uses high-speed gas source and microwaves to ignite plasma and decompose gases close to the gas jet nozzle, resulting in high silane decomposition rates and a large amount of atomic hydrogen. Atomic hydrogen etches the weak Si-Si bonds (amorphous mode) and forms strong and rigid Si-Si bonds (crystalline mode) at growth surface, yielding the nucleation and crystallization of nc-Si:H ﬁlm. The 7.0% (Voc = 0.543 V, FF = 0.610, Jsc = 21.2 mA/cm2) single-junction nc-Si:H solar cell at 1.6 nm/s and a 9.8% a-Si:H/nc-Si:H tandem solar cell at 1.5 nm/s were fabricated by the microwave deposition technique. ECR-CVD The full name of the ECR-CVD technique is the electron-cyclotron resonance (ECR) chemical vapor deposition. The difference between microwave CVD and ECR-CVD is that the plasma in the latter case is in a resonance condition. In a typical conﬁguration of ECR-CVD, the microwaves are coupled by a waveguide through a dielectric window into a cylindrical vacuum chamber which is surrounded by electromagnets. A magnetic conﬁnement is ensured by the axial magnetic ﬁeld. The energies of microwaves are absorbed in the resonant region, in which the electron cyclotron frequency matches the frequency of microwave. The electron cyclotron frequency is deﬁned as ωe = Be/me where B is the magnetic ﬁeld intensity, e is the elementary charge, and me is the electron mass. The heated electrons in the resonant zone dissociate the silane molecules to generate active species that diffuse onto the substrate surface to form the nc-Si:H ﬁlm. The ECR-CVD method also has the advantages of the high plasma density (1012 cm3), low ion energy, little plasma bombardment effect, and low hydrogen consumption for nc-Si:H growth, as well as the high growth rate (2.5 nm/s) for nc-Si:H ﬁlm with device quality (Hsu et al. 2014). C. H. Hsu fabricated the nc-Si:H single-junction solar cells and a-Si:H/nc-Si:H tandem solar cells by ECR-CVD. Single-junction nc-Si:H solar cell has shown the efﬁciency of 6.21%, while 13.3% initial conversion efﬁciency and a 12.7% stabilized efﬁciency were achieved for a micromorph tandem solar cell (Hsu et al. 2014); merely 4.7% light-induced degradation was obtained, indicating the highly stabilized micromorph tandem solar cell. 814 D. Wei et al. ICP-CVD Inductively coupled plasma (ICP), namely, transformer coupled plasma (TCP), is another type of a plasma source in which the energy is supplied by electric current generated by electromagnetic induction. In the ICP-CVD, reactive gases are decomposed into species by a glow discharge created by induction-introduced electromagnetic ﬁeld, and thus the gas-state species are deposited onto substrate to form solid-state ﬁlms by chemical reactions. There are three types of the ICP induction coil geometries: planar, cylindrical, and half-toroidal. The ICP coil is separated from the vacuum vessel by a dielectric window or placed inside the vacuum chamber. Figure 6 shows the schematic dia- grams of ICP-CVD with external conﬁgurations of planar (a) and cylindrical (b) induction coils. As mentioned above, the high atomic hydrogen ﬂux is Fig. 6 Schematic diagrams of planar (a) and cylindrical (b) ICP-CVD systems 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 815 considered to be beneﬁcial for the nc-Si:H ﬁlm growth, whereas the low-energy ion bombardments also promote the nc-Si:H ﬁlm growth without introducing the addi- tional defects (Rath 2003). Fortunately, ICP technique can provide an ideal combi- nation of these two effects, i.e., the enhancement of atomic hydrogen ﬂux and suppression of high-energy ion bombardment, due to its advantages of the high electron density (10111012 cm3), the low electron temperature, and the low plasma sheath potential (Xu et al. 2001). The ICP sources have a long history from the ﬁrst report published by Hittorf in 1884. Kosku and Miyazaki (2006) reported that the ICP-deposited nc-Si:H ﬁlms exhibit the high photoconductivity of 105  104 S/cm but the low photo-response of 310. Wei et al. (2013) achieved phase transition from a-Si:H to nc-Si:H by low-frequency (460 kHz) ICP-CVD at growth rate of 0.5 nm/s. High photo- conductivity (5  105 S/cm) and high photo-response of 340 were obtained. However, an activation energy of 0.41 eV is still lower than the common values (0.530.57 eV), as shown in Table 1, of device-grade nc-Si:H materials (Schropp and Zeman 1998). According to the modern growth theories (Rath 2003), the nc-Si:H material properties are deteriorated by high-energy ion bombardments due to the high energy tail of EEDF which is present in the H-mode. Thus, several methods such as halogenated silane gas sources (Moon et al. 2001) and remote deposition (Wei 2014) were implemented to optimize the nc-Si:H material properties by varying plasma characteristics. Moon et al. (2001) added SiH2Cl2 into SiH4 plasma to promote the growth of crystalline phases. The additional Cl species have the strong etching effects on the growth surface by breaking weak Si-Si bonds, as atomic hydrogen does for nc-Si:H growth under the H-rich plasma conditions. Wei (2014) introduced the remote deposition method to ICP-CVD system in which the coil-to- substrate distance was increased by 4.6 times to separate plasma discharge zone from the ﬁlm deposition zone. The wider parameter windows for device-quality nc-Si:H ﬁlms with low dark conductivity of 108107 S/cm and high photoconductivity of 105 S/cm were obtained with the side effect of the decreased deposition rate. The ICP-CVD systems have many advantages for high-rate deposition of the nc-Si:H ﬁlms, but very few works have been successfully performed to fabricate the high-efﬁciency solar cells. An efﬁciency of 3.14% (Voc = 230 mV, Jsc = 19.7 mA/ cm2, FF = 0.54) measured at the light intensity of 79 mW/cm2 was achieved for a single-junction n-i-p solar cell by adding SiH2Cl2 into SiH4 plasma, with a growth rate of 0.42 nm/s (Moon et al. 2001). Wei fabricated a 4.14% single-junction nc-Si:H solar cell without light-trapping structure, by introducing remote deposition method in 2013 (Wei 2014). Solar Cell Technology The family of the silicon thin-ﬁlm solar cells includes single- and multijunction solar devices. The single-junction nc-Si:H solar cell has the similar structure to that of single-junction a-Si:H solar cell. 816 D. Wei et al. Device Formation and Operation Device Structure A schematic diagram of a typical single-junction nc-Si:H solar cell is shown in Fig. 7a. The single-junction nc-Si:H solar cell usually consists of the core layer of silicon photodiode with the p-i-n junction as well as the TCO and/or metal electrodes in the two terminals and is often fabricated on glass or other foreign substrates. The fundamental photodiode inside the nc-Si:H solar cell has three layers deposited in either p-i-n or the n-i-p sequence. The three layers are speciﬁcally a very thin (20 nm) p-type layer, a much thick (13 μm) intrinsic layer (i-layer), and a thin n-type layer (100 nm). Fig. 7 Schematic diagrams of geometric structure (a) and energy band (b) of single-junction nc-Si: H thin-ﬁlm solar cell 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 817 Principles of Cell Operation As the core of nc-Si:H solar cell, the p-i-n junction has the similar electrical properties to those of a conventional p-n junction. In the doped nc-Si:H layers, the minority photocarriers (holes in n-type layer, electrons in p-type layer) cannot move very far due to the high carrier recombination rates enhanced by heavy doping. Therefore, a p-n junction can only collect photocarriers in the ultra-thin layer of doped nc-Si:H material. Instead, the p-i-n junction is usually used for nc-Si:H thin-ﬁlm solar cell in which the high-quality intrinsic layer with a low defect density is usually selected as the light absorber. As illustrated by energy band diagram in Fig. 7b, some excess electrons in the p-i-n junction are donated from n-type layer, while parts of excess holes also diffuse from p-type layer. As a result, these doped layers are positively and negatively charged, respectively, leading to a built-in electric ﬁeld (typically 104 V/cm) within the photodiode with p-i-n junction. When sunlight enters the photodiode, most of the photons can pass through the thin p-type layer, which is designed as window layer with much low absorption and high transparency, and are then absorbed by the thick intrinsic layer. One photon absorbed can generate one pair of photocarrier (one electron and one hole) in the i-layer. Generally, the high-energy photons in the UV and blue light are quickly absorbed in a thin layer due to the high absorption coefﬁcients. The lower-energy photons need longer optical paths to be absorbed due to lower absorption coefﬁcients. Next, the photon-generated electron-hole pairs are then separated by the built-in electric ﬁeld. The electrons in the conduction band and holes in the valence band are then swept away by the built-in electric ﬁeld to n-type and p-type layers, respectively. Here, the main mechanism of carrier transport in nc-Si:H solar cell is the carrier drift in the built-in electric ﬁeld, rather than carrier diffusion like in the case of c-Si. This is attributed to the much shorter lifetime and diffusion length of minority carriers in nc-Si:H materials due to the presence of considerable carrier recombination centers at band tail states and mid-gap states. Finally, electrons and holes arrive at the contacts and are then collected by external wires, thus forming external current and generating the electricity. Design of a Typical Single-Junction Solar Cell The total thickness of a typical nc-Si:H thin-ﬁlm solar cell is usually less than 10 μm. Therefore, all the functional layers of solar cell should be supported on a much thicker substrate for mechanical stability. As illustrated in Fig. 8, the two conﬁgu- rations of the nc-Si:H solar cell have been designed for opaque and transparent substrates. The light in the superstrate-type conﬁguration penetrates through the transparent substrate before it enters solar cells. Therefore, the deposition sequence of solar cell layers is different for these two designs to make sure that photons always enter through p-type layer ﬁrst. 818 D. Wei et al. Solar Cell of Superstrate-Type Design The solar cell with superstrate-type design is deposited on a carrier which is usually glass or a transparent plastic. Usually, this insulating substrate needs a transparent conductive oxide (TCO) ﬁlm as the front electrode. The sublayers of nc-Si:H p-i-n photodiode are then deposited onto the TCO ﬁlm, starting with a p-type window layer. Finally, a metal ﬁlm such as Ag or Al is deposited onto n-layer of p-i-n photodiode as the back electrode and back reﬂector. Front electrode. In superstrate-type design, the front electrode of a nc-Si:H solar cell is usually a TCO ﬁlm with a thickness between 0.5 and 5 μm. The common TCO materials include indium tin oxide (ITO), ﬂuorine-doped tin oxide (SnO2:F), aluminum-doped zinc oxide (ZnO:Al), etc. When applied to solar cells, the TCO front electrode needs to meet several requirements, namely, (1) low sheet resistance (10 Ω/) or resistivity (104 Ωcm) to reduce the resistance losses, (2) high optical transmittance (at least 80% in therangeof 3501100 nm),(3) low ohmic contact resistancewithp-type window layer, and (4) chemical resistance to plasma during the plasma-aided CVD deposition. Typical properties of the device-grade TCO front electrode are listed in Table 2. In practice, SnO2:F and ZnO:Al are widely used for the front electrode of the nc-Si:H cells made in superstrate-type design. TCO front electrodes are commonly fabricated by sputtering, CVD, evaporation, etc. Sputtering is widely used to deposit TCO ﬁlms by using ceramic or metal targets at a substrate temperature below 300 C. In addition, SnO2:F and ZnO:Al can also be fabricated by CVD methods such as atmospheric pressure CVD (APCVD) and low pressure CVD (LPCVD). The polycrystalline ﬁlm is usually formed to yield high conductivity due to the high doping efﬁciency and high transmittance due to the wide bandgap. TCO front electrode is usually textured to form rough surface for the improved light trapping and the resultant enhanced light absorption. Fig. 8 Schematic diagrams of cross-sectional structures of nc-Si:H thin-ﬁlm solar cells in super- strate- (a) and substrate-type (b) conﬁgurations, respectively 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 819 The p-i-n junction structure. In the superstrate-type design, the conventional p-i- n junction consists of p-type nc-Si:H layer, intrinsic nc-Si:H layer, and n-type nc-Si: H layer. The p-type nc-Si:H layer needs to meet certain requirements: 1. The good function of a p-type junction layer. It is easier for the nc-Si:H to be heavily doped due to the presence of crystalline phase. The low activation energy of the acceptor makes it easy to shift the Fermi level and build up the internal electric ﬁeld. 2. Contact layer. The high conductivity (10102 S/cm) of the p-layer itself does not lead to the large series resistance. In addition, since the work function of the p-layer is larger than that of n+-type TCO, the p-layer/n+-type TCO contact would lead to the depletion of carrier in the p-layer. The resulting Schottky barrier would block the transport of holes into the front electrode and reduce the built-in ﬁeld and the resulting Voc and FF of solar cell. Therefore, heavy doping is utilized to form the tunneling junction at p-layer/n+-type TCO interface to overcome this issue. 3. Seed layer. Since TCO front electrode is usually textured in the real device, the p-layer which is the ﬁrst 1020 nm layer on this textured substrate has the great impact on the following growth of intrinsic layer. As the seed layer, p-type nc-Si: H with high crystallinity needs to be deposited uniformly in the textured substrate. 4. Window layer. This layer is required to exhibit the small thickness and low absorption coefﬁcients to reduce the parasitic absorption losses. The thickness of 20 nm is determined by the trade-off between conductivity and transparency of p-layer. The concept of wide-bandgap window layer such as SiOx and SiCx is proposed later to decrease the parasitic absorption loss. The n-layer that is placed close to back contact is conventionally made of n-type nc-Si:H material. The presence of crystalline phases in n-type nc-Si:H leads to the high doping concentration and small activation energy. This makes n-type nc-Si:H a good candidate for n-layer of p-i-n junction, building up the internal electric ﬁeld and reducing the series resistance loss. Back electrode. In a superstrate-type solar cell, the conventional back electrode is made of silver or aluminum ﬁlm with the thickness of 0.5  3 μm. The metal electrode acts as not only back electrode of p-i-n diode with low contact resistance Table 2 Typical properties of the device-grade TCO front electrode Property parameter Device-grade requirement TCO properties ITO SnO2:F ZnO:Al Transmittance (%) 80 95 90 90 Sheet resistance (Ω/) 10 35 615 615 Buck resistivity (Ωcm) 104 105 104 104 Contact resistance Low ohmic Low ohmic Low ohmic Low ohmic Stability under plasma Good resistance Low Good Excellent 820 D. Wei et al. but also as a highly reﬂective mirror-like back reﬂector to increase the overall optical path and the resulting absorption of the long-wavelength light. To further increase the reﬂection, the present back electrode commonly consists of thin TCO/metal stacks by adding thin ITO or doped ZnO layer between the n-layer and metal layer. TCO layer is often designed to be the 80-nm-thick reﬂection-enhancing coating layer. Combined with the textured n-layer surface replicated from front electrode, the large grade of refractive index between TCO and silicon makes a large portion of light reﬂected at this interface, thus enhancing the overall reﬂection at back electrode. This excellent back reﬂector can yield the Jsc of nc-Si:H solar cells. In addition, TCO layer also acts as barrier layer to avoid cross- diffusion between the metal layer and n-layer. Due to the presence of neighboring back metal layer, this thin TCO ﬁlm is not required to be as highly conductive as the thick front TCO electrode. Solar Cell of Substrate-Type Design In this design, light enters the device ﬁrst and ﬁnally reaches the carrier, namely, substrate. The back electrode is ﬁrstly deposited on the substrate, and then the p-i-n junction (starting with n-type layer) is fabricated, followed by the topmost TCO and/or metal grid front electrode, as shown in Fig. 8b. The deposition sequence of individual layers is opposite to those of the superstrate-type design. Since there is no requirement for the transparency of substrate, this design can be applied to various rigid or ﬂexible substrates. Stainless steel (SS) and polymer foils are the widely used substrates. Back electrode. In the substrate-type design, back electrode of nc-Si:H solar cell consists of stacked Ag/thin TCO bilayer to enhance the reﬂection. Silver thin ﬁlm with the thickness of 0.5  3 μm is deposited ﬁrstly on the substrate as back electrode and back reﬂector. The surface of silver ﬁlm is textured for light trapping, which is similar to the case of thick TCO front electrode in superstrate- type design. ZnO:Al thin ﬁlm with the thickness of 70  100 nm is often deposited between metal back contact and n-layer of p-i-n junction. This thin oxide layer has the same function as the case of thin TCO layer used in back electrode in superstrate-type design. First of all, ZnO:Al thin ﬁlm acts as the reﬂection- enhancing coating layer to enhance the reﬂection combined with metal back electrode. Secondly, this layer is also a barrier layer to prevent the interdiffusion of silver and n-type silicon layer. In addition, ZnO:Al thin ﬁlm has the excellent resistance to plasma so that the growth surface is chemically stable during the following n-layer deposition. Silver ﬁlms are usually fabricated by thermal evaporation, electron beam evap- oration, or sputtering techniques, while doped ZnO thin ﬁlms are often deposited by sputtering or LPCVD. The absence of silicon layers allows the high-temperature deposition process of back electrode. The n-i-p junction. The function of n-i-p junction in substrate-type conﬁguration is also to build up the internal electric ﬁeld, which is the same as that of p-i-n junction in superstrate design. Compared with the latter, the reversed deposition sequence of n-i-p junction means that the ﬁrstly deposited n-layer acting as the seed layer has an 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 821 important impact on properties of the following silicon layers. The n-i-p structure makes the critical p-layer window layer deposited last. Thus, it is easier to fabricate a high-quality p-type layer on an intrinsic nc-Si:H layer in the substrate-type design than a foreign TCO ﬁlm in superstrate-type conﬁguration. Front electrode: The front electrode is composed of TCO thin ﬁlm and a silver grid in substrate-type design. This is different from the back electrode in superstrate- type design in which the single thick TCO ﬁlm is applied; 70 nm front TCO layer is deposited ﬁnally so that the deposition temperature cannot exceed the deposition temperature of the existing layers. This limits the process window of TCO layer within the range of low-temperature depositions. As this last process step, the concern of good resistance to plasma in CVD process is not needed so that ITO thin ﬁlm with better conductivity can also be a good candidate for this thin TCO layer. Nevertheless, the 80 nm front TCO electrode cannot be as highly conductive as the thick TCO electrode in a superstrate-type solar cell. The sheet resistance of 70  80 nm ITO ﬁlm can be around 50 Ω/or more. Thus, the micrometer-thick silver grid is applied to assist the thin TCO front layer to effectively collect the photo-generated carriers and reduce the series resistance of cell. Meanwhile, a tunnel contact should be formed between the degenerated n+-type TCO and p-type nc-Si:H layer to reduce the contact resistance. In addition, the thin TCO layer also acts as an antireﬂection layer for light harvesting, and its thickness is usually around 80 nm to minimize light reﬂection. Finally, the thin TCO layer is the barrier of interdiffusion of p-type nc-Si:H layer and Ag grids. As one candidate of thin TCO ﬁlm, ITO ﬁlm is usually fabricated by evaporation or sputtering, while doped ZnO ﬁlm is usually deposited by sputtering or MOCVD techniques. Silver grid is often deposited by evaporation or sputtering with a shallow mask. Multijunction Solar Cell Due to the nature of bandgap, the single-junction solar cell made of one material has the strong photo-response when light energy E is large than Eg, while its photo- response can be negligible when light energy E is smaller than Eg. The common multijunction solar cell is created by stacking several p-i-n (or n-i-p) single-junction solar cells on top of each other. In 1994, University of Neuchatel ﬁrst proposed the concept of micromorph tandem cell in which an a-Si:H top cell is stacked by a nc-Si:H bottom cell (Meier et al. 1994). The schematic diagrams of cross-sectional structures of typical micromorph tandem solar cell and triple-junction solar cell are illustrated in Fig. 9. For a solar cell with triple or more junctions, a-SiGe:H cells with different Ge contents would be added as middle or bottom component cells. All component cells are connected electrically in series by p-n tunnel junctions to form the ohmic contacts in the most common series-connected stacked multijunction solar cell. The main advantage of multijunction solar cell is its spectrum-splitting design. Ideally, the absorption coefﬁcient of the light signiﬁcantly increases with the 822 D. Wei et al. increasing photon energy. However, when photon with energy E  Eg enters nc-Si:H material, it would lose a part of its energy by interacting with phonons due to the indirect bandgap nature, and then the relaxed photon with energy approaching Eg can be converted into an electron-hole pair. Therefore, a single-junction solar cell has the highest quantum efﬁciency for the light whose photo energy is near to the bandgap due to the lowest absorption losses induced by lattice relaxation. Thus, the bandgap of component cell in a multijunction solar cell is usually designed to decreases from the top to bottom for the higher energy conversion efﬁciency. The a-Si:H top cell with a wider bandgap (1.7 eV) mainly captures the UV and visible light and acts like a low pass optical ﬁlter for other light, while the remaining red and infrared light are more effectively absorbed by the middle and/or bottom a-SiGe: H and nc-Si:H (1.1 eV) cells. Furthermore, the multijunction solar cell can have the higher collection efﬁciency of carriers than single-junction cell because of the higher electric ﬁelds in the thinner absorbers of component cells in multijunction. The higher electric ﬁeld in the middle of absorber enhances the drifts of carriers, reducing the drift time and path of carriers and promoting the carrier collection efﬁciency. In addition, compared with single-junction a-Si:H solar cell, the light-induced degra- dation is improved in multijunction solar cell because the thickness of a-Si:H cell, whose efﬁciency is most negatively affected by the light illumination, is cut by nearly half in the multijunction solar cell. To fabricate a high-efﬁciency multijunction solar cell, several key require- ments should be met: (1) the high-quality light absorber in each component cell, (2) the proper current matching of component cells, (3) the low series resistance losses by using low-resistance tunnel junctions, (4) excellent Fig. 9 Schematic diagrams of cross-sectional structures of typical micromorph tandem solar cell (a) and triple-junction solar cell (b) 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 823 light conﬁnements by antireﬂection layer, intermediate reﬂector, back reﬂector, etc., which will be discussed in section Optical Design for Light Management. Current matching: In the most common multijunction solar cell, component cells are connected in series to form a two-terminal device so that current densities in all component cells are equal. Thus, the total current density of multijunction is limited by the component cell with the minimum current density during the operation. Therefore, current densities of all component cells are required to be nearly the same as each other, which is, namely, current matching, at the maximum power point of every component cells. The Jsc of single component cell can be considered as a rough guide for current matching. The optimization of current matching requires a combined modeling and empirical approach in consideration of the cell-to-cell bandgap difference, internal light diffusion, the different effects of back reﬂector on component cells, properties of tunneling recombination junction, the different light-induced degradations, etc. (Schropp and Zeman 1998). Tunnel junction: A p-n junction is unintentionally created at the interface between two adjacent p-i-n component cells. Once a classic p-n junction is formed, the overall built-in potential in multijunction would be counteracted by this p-n junction with reversed built-in potential. Therefore, an ohmic-like contact is needed to minimize the loss of built-in potential. Tunnel junction is composed of two oppositely and heavily doped a-Si:H and/or nc-Si:H junction layers, and thus the density of defects such as dangling bonds increases with the increasing doping concentration. As a result, carriers trapped on one side of p-n junction interface can move to the traps on the other side by quantum tunneling effect. It is sufﬁciently effective for this kind of electrical transport to form an ohmic-like contact with small contact resistance. In addition, space charges would be accu- mulated at interface of adjacent cells once the recombination rate of carriers cannot keep pace with the approaching carriers. This accumulation gives an adverse effect on electric ﬁeld in the adjacent cell and leads to the loss of built- in potential. The tunnel junction gives an efﬁcient channel of carrier recombina- tion. Therefore, this tunnel junction is also nominated as tunnel-recombination junction (TRJ). Light-Induced Degradation The ﬁrstly reported nc-Si:H solar cell shows the full stability under light soaking, but its intrinsic layer has a high crystallinity. However, from the follow- ing studies, it is found that nc-Si:H solar cells with i-layers of medium crystalline volume fraction (4060%) undergo the mild form of degradation when exposed to blue or white light (Meillaud et al. 2009), as shown in Fig. 10. The amorphous phase, which is more sensitive to blue light, is considered to be attributed to the degradation. In addition, it is found that the efﬁciency degradation is closely related to the increasing defect-related absorption at 0.8 eV, which can be measured by FTPS method. As shown in Fig. 10, after the light soaking, the 824 D. Wei et al. increase in defect-related absorption at 0.8 eV in the solar cell with the higher fraction of amorphous phase is much larger than that in the solar cell with the higher crystallinity. Chowdhury et al. (2009) observed that amorphous component is not the only determining factor for light-induced degradation. Small grains (less than 3 nm in diameter) and/or intermediate phases are also considered to provide a better stability in i-layer near the p/i interface. However, exact identiﬁcations of micro- scopic natures of light-induced defects in nc-Si:H remain unclear, and further investigations are required in the future. Few signiﬁcant light-induced degrada- tions have been observed in the nc-Si:H bottom cells of multijunction solar cells because the top a-Si:H cells usually act as the ﬁlters for the blue light. The main concern for light-induced degradation in multijunction solar cell is mainly focused on its top a-Si:H cell. Advanced Technologies for Efficiency Improvement Improved Absorber Material on Textured Substrate Material properties of intrinsic absorber have been discussed in section Properties of Nanocrystalline Silicon. However, nc-Si:H with high material quality (such as proper crystallinity, low defect-related absorption, appreciable photovoltaic Fig. 10 Defect-related absorptions (0.8 eV) in initial and light-soaked states (1000 h under standard condition) of single-junction n-i-p nc-Si:H solar cells with the varying crystalline volume fractions of the intrinsic layers. (Reprinted from Meillaud et al. (2009). Copyright (2009), with permission from Taylor & Francis) 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 825 properties) is not sufﬁcient to ensure the high efﬁciency of solar cell. The additional microstructure defects such as cracks would be generated at the highly rough TCO surface. For example, cracks are often formed during the growth of i-layer at the rough surface of V-shaped textured ZnO:Al front electrode with large, steep pyramids. Cracks including defective and porous zones may typically appear at the bottom of the valley of texture structure, as shown in Fig. 11a. Cracks represented by white lines may propagate through the entire junction. A high- density recombination centers occur around crack regions with the reduced structural order. SIMS result reveals that the oxygen concentration increases in the crack regions, leading to the reduced charge collection efﬁciency, lower ﬁll factor, and lower open-circuit voltage (Kilper et al. 2009). However, the high- quality intrinsic layers prepared on ﬂat or smooth substrates do not exhibit cracks and/or voids. As the roughness of substrate increases, the crack density in intrinsic layer is increased. By means of plasma surface treatment, the V-shaped texture on the doped ZnO surface can be transformed into the smoother U-shaped features by suppressing the small pyramid roughness, as shown in Fig. 11b. With this surface treatment, crack density can be signiﬁcantly reduced. Thus, both cell efﬁciency and FF can be improved when solar cell is fabricated on the smooth doped ZnO front electrode. Tamang et al. (2016) investigated the interplay of light trapping and crack formation for nc-Si:H solar cells on periodically textured honeycomb substrates. It is found that the height-to-period ratio of the surface texture should be smaller or equal to 0.25 to avoid the formation of cracks while maintaining the good light trapping effect. This means that the smooth and large-scale texture structure with shallow units yields the crack-free growth of intrinsic absorber. Fig. 11 Cross-sectional TEM micrographs of single-junction p-i-n solar cells fabricated on pyramidal substrates. The white lines represent cracks. Cracks resulted from V-shaped valleys of substrate in (a) cross the whole p-i-n device while only a crack is present in the last half of nc-Si:H layer deposited on a substrate with U-shaped valleys in (b). (Reprinted from Python et al. (2009). Copyright (2009), with permission from Elsevier) 826 D. Wei et al. Interface Treatment A high Voc is of great importance to achieve the high conversion efﬁciency. The Voc is typically subjected to doped layers, the mobility gap of intrinsic layer, bulk properties of intrinsic layer, and the recombinations at p/i interface region. The p/i Interface Treatment The treatments of junction interface, especially p/i interface alone, have been widely studied for Voc improvement. A regular nanoscale a-Si:H or nc-Si:H ﬁlm is inserted between p- and i-layers as the buffer to improve the p/i interface property. By inserting a HWCVD-deposited buffer layer between the p- and i-layers, nc-Si:H solar cell with a high Voc of 570 mV and an initial efﬁciency of 10.3% was fabricated by VHF-PECVD in 2005 (Mai et al. 2005). A 9.8% nc-Si:H solar cell with a higher Voc of 603 mV was fabricated through the combination of the HWCVD-deposited buffer layer at the p/i interface and PECVD-deposited absorber using controlled SiH4 ﬂow proﬁling technique in 2007 (Van Den Donker et al. 2007). The controlled bulk and interface properties yield the effective charge carrier collection from i layer with a crystalline volume fraction of 30%. Compared with Voc in PECVD-deposited cells, the higher Voc in HWCVD-deposited nc-Si:H solar cells are attributed to the improved p/i interface quality, which is veriﬁed by the greatly enhanced blue light response in such solar cells, likely due to the ion-free depositions on p-layers in HWCVD processes. Interface can also be improved by introducing a SiOx or SiCx:H buffer layer between the doped layer and the absorber. Higher electrical performance was achieved through the use of mixed-phase SiOx doped layer in nc-Si:H solar cell. An intrinsic SiOx buffer layer inserted at the p/i interface seems to promote the nucleation of the intrinsic absorber and depress boron cross- contaminations. The improved transparency in short-wavelength range was demonstrated. A p-i-n single-junction nc-Si:H solar cell shows the efﬁciency of 10.9% (Meillaud et al. 2009). Although high Voc is often attributed to the improved p/i interface quality, the exact reason for this improvement has not been clearly illustrated yet. The n/i Interface Treatment The n/i layer interface is not usually thought to be a key to cell performance because the local generation rate at n/i interface is much smaller than that at p/i interface. The n-layer is usually made of nc-Si:H thin ﬁlm to contact the back electrode. In a n-i-p nc-Si:H solar cell, an a-Si:H buffer layer and a seed layer are often inserted at the n/i interface. The a-Si:H buffer layer is added to reduce phosphorous incorporation into the intrinsic layer. In recent years, phosphorus-doped mixed-phase SiOx (n-SiOx) thin ﬁlms have been introduced to act as the advanced n-layers, intermediate reﬂectors, or back reﬂectors in micromorph solar cells. As the doping layer and back reﬂector, n-SiOx thin ﬁlm has been shown to promote the cell efﬁciency (Hanni et al. 2015). 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 827 Hanni et al. (2015) introduced a passivated n/i hetero-interface design consisting of a stacked 20-nm-thick intrinsic a-Si:H buffer layer and an a-Si:H n-doped layer as good contact with the back electrode, as shown in Fig. 12a. The other standard design including a single n-type SiOx layer acts as the reference structure. Figure 12b shows the Voc values of two designs of cells deposited on smooth and rough superstrates as functions of variable illumination. The diode ideality factor (n) could be extracted by ﬁtting the Voc illumination data with the one-diode model (Merten et al. 1998). It is found that the diode ideality factor which corresponds to slope of ﬁt is independent of the n/i interface design for cells on smooth superstrates, while the Voc of cell in passivated design drops more than that of cell in standard design at lower illumination, which is attributed to the more efﬁcient shunt quenching effect of the standard design with a n-SiOx layer. This result indicated that the high-quality absorber layers with no or few zones of porous and defective materials (cracks) were obtained in all these cells. This can also be veriﬁed by the high efﬁciencies (7.59.2%) of all cells. For such cells, the inﬂuence of the bulk recombination due to defect density in intrinsic absorber is decreased, and thus the recombination at junction interfaces has the major impact on Voc. By applying a-Si:H passivation layer at n/i interface, the 650-nm-thick single-junction nc-Si:H cell with medium crystallinity i-layer demonstrates the highest reported Voc of 608 mVand an efﬁciency of 9.45%. Aside from the high quality of bulk material, good passivation at n/i interface is the key factor to achieve the high Voc. This approach is similar to passivation effect of amorphous/crystalline silicon heterojunction solar cell, where passivation of crystalline surface signiﬁcantly increases the Voc when compared to traditional diffused-junction c-Si solar cells. Fig. 12 (a) Cross-sectional schematic diagram of nc-Si:H solar cell with two designs with different n/i interfaces: a passivated design with a-Si:H layers (passivated) and a standard n-SiOx layer (standard). (b) The Voc of single-junction nc-Si:H solar cells on smooth and rough superstrates versus illumination level. The diode ideality factors were calculated from the slopes of the ﬁts, represented by the dotted lines. (Reproduced from Hanni et al. (2015). Copyright (2015), with permission from John Wiley and Sons) 828 D. Wei et al. Optical Design for Light Management Light management is an important strategy for efﬁciency improvement. The light losses in nc-Si:H solar cells mainly include the following three aspects: (1) the insufﬁcient front-side in-coupling of light due to the reﬂections at layer interfaces, induced by the difference in refractive indexes in both sides, (2) the parasitic absorption loss in p-type window layer, and (3) the absorption loss of red and near-infrared light due to the low absorption coefﬁcients and insufﬁcient optical paths. The aim of light management is to reduce these losses. Antireflection Structure at Air/Cell Interface As the incident sunlight enters the top planar surface of solar cell, part of the light would be reﬂected back by the mirror-like interface and escape to the outside of device. This so-called Fresnel reﬂection is typically reduced by coating an anti- reﬂective layer at the air/cell interface. Antireﬂection coating techniques are widely applied to effectively reduce surface reﬂection in various optical and optoelectronic devices. Fresnel reﬂection strongly depends on the contrast of refractive indexes (n1 and n2) of two neighboring media. A planar and transparent dielectric buffer layer with intermediate refractive index can be coated to reduce the reﬂection at air/cell interface. The reﬂected light from the back and front surfaces of the transparent ﬁlm undergoes the destructive interference with each other if the thickness of coating ﬁlm is equal to one-quarter of the wavelength. Fresnel reﬂection can be minimized by destructive interference if the refractive index (narc) of a buffer layer approaches (n1n2)0.5, and the thickness of the antireﬂection layer is designed to be one-quarter of the wavelength (λ/(4 narc)), where λ is the light wavelength. In substrate-type solar cell, the top p-type nc-Si:H layer has the high refractive index (4.0) so that a wide range of materials can be chosen as antireﬂection layer if their refractive index is between 1.0 and 4.0. Thin TCO front electrode such as ZnO: Al, ITO, etc., also acts as the antireﬂection coating layer in the conventional substrate-type solar cell. In addition, the common dielectric materials (SiO2, n = 1.4; Al2O3, n = 1.8; Si3N4, n = 2.0; TiO2, n = 2.3) can also be coated as the antireﬂection layers at air/cell interfaces. In superstrate-type solar cell, since the glass superstrate has relatively low refractive index (1.4  1.6), it is difﬁcult to ﬁnd a perfect natural antireﬂection coating material with the optimal refractive index (1.1  1.3) (Schuster 2017). Silicon oxide is the common material of antireﬂection layer in conventional superstrate-type solar cells. However, since the designed thickness of antireﬂection coating is determined by a speciﬁc wavelength (e.g., 600 nm) in visible light range, the resulting low reﬂection is achieved in the range around this speciﬁc wavelength. Single layer antireﬂection coating cannot achieve the effective antireﬂection in the full range of solar spectrum. In an ideal case, if the refractive index can vary continuously in the transition region from air to cell, anti reﬂection can be achieved in a broad band. In fact, the inhomogeneous refractive index proﬁle can be approximated by the multilayer coating, so that the refractive index varies step by step. For example, a ZnS/MgF2/ SiO2 multilayer can decrease the reﬂection at air/silicon interface down to 2% in the 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 829 broad wavelength range (440960 nm) (Schuster 2017). However, the multilayer coating often has a higher fabrication cost, and thus single antireﬂection layer is still widely used for antireﬂection of solar cells. Texture of Front Electrode for Superstrate-Type Solar Cell There are two challenges related to the front side of nc-Si:H solar cell: (1) in-coupling sunlight with the minimum reﬂection and (2) the enhancement of the red and NIR light trapping. In a superstrate-type solar cell, the texture commonly formed at front TCO/p- layer interface is the conventional solution for these two challenges. In the texture, the propagation direction of light would be changed due to light scattering at interfaces of neighboring medium layers with different refractive indexes, as seen in Fig. 13a. The mechanism of light scattering can be roughly categorized into reﬂection/ refraction and diffraction according to the feature size of texture. If the feature sizes in texture structure are much larger than the wavelengths, the part of incident light will generally be reﬂected at texture surface, bounce onto the textured surface multiple times, and be trapped within the texture rather than out to the air, as shown in Fig. 13a. Meanwhile, the part of light is refracted at interface so that the Fig. 13 (a) Schematic diagram of the cross section of a superstrate-type silicon thin-ﬁlm solar cell with textured interface. The concept of light trapping is illustrated by the black arrows which represent the incident and scattered light. Various optical paths of light reﬂecting and scatterings are sketched. (b) SEM image of typical top surface of CVD-grown SnO2:F (Asahi Glass Co., type U). (c) Quantum efﬁciency (QE) and (1-R) curves of nc-Si:H p-i-n solar cells on thin texture-etched (dashed lines) and smooth doped ZnO (solid lines). R is total cell reﬂectance. (d) SEM image of typical top surface of sputtered and texture-etched ZnO. (Reproduced from Müller et al. (2004). Copyright (2004), with permission from Elsevier) 830 D. Wei et al. light changes its direction and then enters the p-layer and the following absorbing layer. If the feature sizes are comparable or smaller than the wavelengths, the concepts of reﬂection and refraction in the geometric optics are not applicable. The light is scattered by the diffraction effect at media interface. This effect can also be understood by the breakdown of a texture into multilayers, and the aspect ratio of texture corresponds to transition region from TCO layer to nc-Si:H cell. Thus, the texture can be approximately in analogy to multilayer, antireﬂection coating and considered as a medium with a stepwise increasing index from TCO to silicon (Schuster 2017). As a result, compared with planar structure, more light at texture interface is coupled into the absorbing layer, and the optical path is also increased by changing the light propagation direction via texture. The more effective light in-coupling and longer optical path would translate into the higher absorption, especially the absorp- tion of NIR light. Thus, the texture structure can ﬁnally increase the Jsc of solar cell even though it meanwhile reduces the open-circuit voltage. Fortunately, the yield of short-circuit current density enhancement is larger than the loss of open-circuit voltage. Therefore, the light trapping by texture is an effective way for efﬁciency improvement of solar cell by reducing reﬂection loss at interface and absorption loss of NIR light in the intrinsic layer. The effect of light scattering can be estimated by the haze ratio which is deﬁned as the ratio of diffuse transmittance to total transmittance. The higher haze ratio indicates that more light is scattered. The high haze in a broad wavelength range is therefore a requirement for absorption enhancement of a thin absorbing slab. How- ever, haze alone is not the sufﬁcient characterization of light-trapping structure. Path length enhancement, which is deﬁned as the ratio of path length to absorber thickness, is a better parameter. The larger scattering angle θ and the longer path through the absorber would lead to the high path length enhancement. In theory, the maximum limit of path length enhancement in an ideal Lambertian scatterer is 4n2, where n is the refractive index of TCO ﬁlm (Yablanovitch and Cody 1982). Many methods to form random or periodic textures have been developed for effective light trapping. Random textured TCO: The bottom-up approaches for random texture of thick TCO layer are widely used for light trapping in nc-Si:H solar cells. The random textures with microscale feature sizes are conventionally fabricated by post-deposi- tion etching process. For example, the texture on sputtering-deposited ZnO:Al ﬁlms, which are often initially ﬂat with little roughness, can be formed by wet etching in the diluted HCl solution, leading to the decrease in reﬂection and enhancement of quantum efﬁciency, as seen in Fig. 13c, d. It is worth noting that too rough TCO layers with steep slopes would lead to the decrease in Voc and FF in nc-Si:H solar cells. Therefore, the topography is also required to be smooth enough to avoid the formation of defects (such as cracks, voids, etc.), which can lead to electrical transport issues such as shunting, etc. The textured structure can also be natively formed during some CVD deposition processes. For example, SnO2:F ﬁlm which is deposited by APCVD can natively form a textured structure on surface (Gordon et al. 1989). Generally, as-grown 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 831 CVD-SnO2:F ﬁlms have the typical V-shaped surface roughness, and the V-shaped large and steep pyramids are also typically formed in the as-grown LPCVD-depos- ited ZnO ﬁlms. Nevertheless, the roughness shape of the latter texture can be modiﬁed by plasma treatment from V-shape to U-shape. Figure 13b, d shows SEM images of the typical V-shaped surface roughness of CVD-grown SnO2:F (Asahi Glass Co., type U) and the U-shaped surface roughness of sputtered and texture-etched ZnO. Random textured superstrate: The random texture can also be formed by texturing the glass superstrate instead of texturing TCO front electrode. Hongsingthong et al. (2013) reported that reactive ion etching (RIE) treatment with carbon tetraﬂuoride (CF4) is used to modify surface morphology of soda-lime glass superstrate and form texture with very high haze ratio. The surface mor- phology of doped ZnO ﬁlm grown on the glass strongly depends on the morphol- ogy of the etched glass. As shown in Fig. 14b, the conventional as-grown pyramid-like texture in doped ZnO ﬁlm can be changed into cauliﬂower-like double texture by crater-like glass texture shown in Fig. 14a, resulting in the increases in root mean square of feature size and haze ratio of surface roughness. The haze ratio of over 92% at the wavelength of 800 nm can be achieved in the double-textured ZnO ﬁlms. As shown in Fig. 14c, the enhancement in the quan- tum efﬁciency in the long-wavelength region and Jsc of 24.70 mA/cm2 have been achieved when introducing this double textured ZnO ﬁlm as front electrode in nc-Si:H solar cell. Periodic textured superstrate: Recently, periodic light-trapping textures have been introduced in nc-Si:H solar cells in both substrate- and superstrate-type con- ﬁgurations. A commercial transparent superstrate embossed with micrometer-scale 2-D grating, which is fabricated by nanoimprint lithography, is coated with a thin conductive layer of hydrogenated indium oxide and then applied as front electrodes with periodic 2-D texture for micromorph tandem solar cells (Moulin et al. 2014). Combining this periodic 2-D texture with as-grown LPCVD-deposited random texture at surface of doped ZnO, the transparent front electrode with double texture was obtained for the enhanced light trapping. This double texture makes the efﬁ- ciency of solar cell with 1.6-μm-thick ZnO:B front electrode to be as high as that of the solar cell with 2.3-μm-thick doped ZnO front electrode with random single- texture. Texture of Back Electrode for Substrate-Type Solar Cell In substrate-type conﬁguration, the textures of n-i-p solar cells for light trapping are different from those of p-i-n solar cells in superstrate-type conﬁguration. The substrate is usually coated with reﬂective metal such as silver or aluminum ﬁlm, which acts as back electrode and reﬂector. The back reﬂector mainly reﬂects the red and NIR light since the blue and green light are already absorbed within the ﬁrst few hundreds of nanometers in silicon layer. The natural texture structures can be formed at surfaces of these metal ﬁlms for light trapping when these metal ﬁlms are deposited at high temperatures between 300 C and 400 C (Schropp and Zeman 1998). However, the back reﬂector of a textured metal ﬁlm would cause plasmonic 832 D. Wei et al. absorption losses (Sai et al. 2012). These kinds of optical losses can be minimized when a metal layer is separated from a silicon layer by a transparent oxide layer. Stacked TCO/textured metal structure has become a standard structure of back reﬂector for light trapping. In recent years, periodically textured substrates have been applied for light trapping. Periodically textured substrates with hexagonal dimple arrays (hereafter, honeycomb texture) were developed and applied to nc-Si:H cells as the back reﬂector (Sai et al. 2015). A Jsc of 26 mA/cm2 was achieved in a 1-μm-thick nc-Si:H cell by optimizing the period and aspect ratio of honeycomb texture (Sai et al. 2012). Sai et al. (2015) reported the high-efﬁciency nc-Si:H solar cells on honeycomb textured substrates fabricated by VHF-PECVD. The honeycomb structure was fabricated by a top-down approach in which honeycomb structure was formed by Fig. 14 SEM top-view micrograph of textured soda-lime glass superstrate (a) and cross-sectional SEM micrograph of doped ZnO ﬁlm deposited on the textured soda-lime glass (b) at the etching pressure of 13 Pa. (c) is quantum efﬁciencies and reﬂectance of two typical nc-Si:H solar cells using doped ZnO ﬁlms deposited on the etched glass (rms 270 nm) and the ﬂat glass (rms 63 nm), respectively, as the front TCO electrodes. rms root mean square. (Reproduced from Hongsingthong et al. (2013). Copyright (2013), with permission from Elsevier) 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 833 the wet etching of a grown silicon oxide ﬁlm via a mask with the honeycomb patterns obtained by photolithography method. The honeycomb texture has the larger feature size (45 μm) than texture in commercial SnO2:F-coated glass, as shown in Fig. 15a, b. The honeycomb textures improve the infrared response (see Fig. 15c) as well as the nc-Si:H ﬁlm growth. Rounded concaves in the honeycomb structure with an appropriate period promote the efﬁciency of substrate-type nc-Si:H solar cell up to 11.8% at a deposition rate of 1 nm/s. Window Layer Aside from light conﬁnements mentioned above, the other aspect to enhance the light management is to reduce parasitic absorption losses in window layer. In nc-Si:H solar cell, the conventional window layer is made of p-type nc-Si:H material, whose advantages are the high doping efﬁciency and low activation energy. Thus, the high conductivity of 10102 S/cm can be achieved to increase built-in potential and reduce series resistance of solar cell. However, this material Fig. 15 (a, b) Represent SEM images of a honeycomb textured and a reference textured substrates, respectively. (c) Represents EQE and absorption (1-R) spectra of nc-Si:H cells deposited on the honeycomb and reference substrates (commercial textured SnO2:F-coated glass) using the lab-scale RF-PECVD (RF) and Gen-5-sized VHF-PECVD (VHF-G5) systems. Gen-5-sized means a large substrate area scale of 1.1  1.4 m. All the cells have the thickness of 2 μm. (Reproduced with permission from Sai et al. (2015). Copyright (2015) The Japan Society of Applied Physics) 834 D. Wei et al. has a narrow bandgap (1.1 eV), leading to the considerable parasitic absorption losses in short wavelength range and the resultant photocurrent losses. The wide-bandgap materials are the promising alternatives for new window layers instead of p-type nc-Si:H. They need to meet certain requirements as follows: (1) The bandgap of more than 2 eV is desirable to effectively reduce parasitic absorption losses. (2) As a junction layer, the conductivity needs to be larger than 106 S/cm to reduce series resistance and increase ﬁll factor of solar cell. (3) For a p- i-n solar cell, it is better for the window layer to act as the seed layer of intrinsic absorber as well. Thus, the additional step of speciﬁc seed layer deposition can be avoidable. p-type nanocrystalline (or, i.e., microcrystalline) silicon alloys such as SiOx or SiCx are recently used for window layers. These materials consist of silicon crystals and amorphous silicon alloy networks. The crystals with the high doping efﬁciencies facilitate the overall conductivity of the window layer, while amorphous silicon alloys contribute to the wide bandgap of the window layer. Therefore, these two-phase mixed materials partially decouple the optimizations of the optical and electrical properties by adjusting deposition conditions that deliver the appropriate mixture of the two phases. The hydrogenated p-type nanocrystalline silicon oxide (p-nc-SiOx:H) is recently reported as a wide-bandgap window layer which exhibits the bandgap of 2.33 eVand the conductivity of 0.2 S/cm (Chen et al. 2016). As the oxygen content increases, the response in short wavelength range is enhanced, leading to the increase in Jsc from 19.73 mA/cm2 to 21.62 mA/cm2. Meanwhile, a barrier in the conduction band that is formed at p/i interface suppresses the electron diffusion, reducing the recombination rate and increasing the Voc from 490 mV to 510 mV. In addition, p-type nc-SiOx:H also induces the shunt quenching of cracks in the absorber, leading to high shunt resistance and the resultant increase in ﬁll factor (Hanni et al. 2015). H. Tan reported the PECVD-deposited p-nc-SiOx ﬁlms which have the perpendicular ﬁlament-like Si nanocrystalline phases, leading to the adequate transverse conduction in spite of low planar conduction. The p-nc-SiOx window layer results in higher Voc and the stronger blue light response and yields the 14.4% a-Si:H/nc-Si:H tandem solar cell (Tan et al. 2015). The hydrogenated p-type nanocrystalline silicon carbide (p-nc-SiCx:H) is also a good alternative for window layer. Boron-doped p-nc-SiCx:H thin ﬁlm (30 nm) exhibits the high conductivity of 1.7  103 S/cm and bandgap of 2.21 eV (E04) (Ma et al. 2013). The high conductivity is associated with the percolation channels in crystalline phases. Al-doped p-nc-SiCx:H thin ﬁlms deposited by HWCVD using trimethylaluminum (TMAl) as dopant exhibit the structures with cubic (3C) SiC polytypes, the wide optical bandgaps (E04) of 2.0  2.8 eV, and high dark conduc- tivities between 10-5 S/cm and 0.1 S/cm (Chen et al. 2014). Intermediate Reflector In the multijunction solar cell, the amorphous absorbers made of a-Si:H or a-SiGe: H material should be thin to minimize the light-induced degradation effects, which may decrease the overall device current density by the reduced current densities of 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 835 amorphous component cells. To overcome this issue, a so-called intermediate reﬂector (IRL) is added between component cells. For micromorph tandem solar cell, an IRL would reﬂect the short wavelength light back to a-Si:H top cell and enhance the overall light absorption inside it. For a triple-junction (a-Si:H/ a-SiGe:H/nc-Si:H) cell, an IRL is usually added between the middle and bottom cells to compensate for the current of middle cell. IRL can increase the reﬂection of the incident light at interface and make the reﬂected light return the top and middle cells. Therefore, the IRL allows the reduced thicknesses of amorphous absorbers in the top and middle cells. This effect is favorable for carrier transport, leading to the reduction of light-induced degradation in amorphous cells. Good IRL requires low refractive index (n) and high trans- mittance. If the refractive index of IRL is much lower than those of amorphous cells, IRL can effectively reﬂect the short-wavelength light to amorphous cells. Meanwhile, if IRL has the wide bandgap with low optical absorption, it can also enable more long-wavelength light to enter bottom cell. In addition, as contact layers of component cells, IRLs are also required to have the appreciate conductivities. If their conductivities are lower than a certain level, IRLs cannot give a good function in solar cells because their poor contacts would result in high series resistances and low FFs. Vertical conductivity of IRL is usually required to be higher than 105 S/cm in multijunction solar cell (Buehlmann et al. 2007). It is crucial for an intermediate reﬂector to have a lower refractive index than that of silicon layer (4.0) to enhance the internal reﬂection. The conductive metal oxides (such as doped ZnO) and Si alloy (e.g., SiOx:H) are promising candidates for IRL. Doped ZnO is suitable for IRL material in a cell because it usually has a refractive index of around 1.8  2.0 and a conductivity of 102 S/cm. It was reported that highly conductive ZnO IRLs with n of 2.0 signiﬁcantly increase efﬁciencies of a-Si:H/nc-Si:H tandem solar cells in superstrate-type design (Myong et al. 2007). To date, multijunction solar cells with highly conductive metal oxides often exhibit higher efﬁciencies than those of cells with Si alloy IRLs. However, their high lateral conductivities lead to unintended shunts during the processes of monolithic series integration of segments. An additional laser scribe or a coating process is needed to avoid the lateral shunt creations, resulting in high production cost. The other alternative of IRL material is hydrogenated n-type amorphous silicon- oxide (n-a-SiOx:H) or hydrogenated n-type nanocrystalline (or microcrystalline) silicon oxide (n-nc-SiOx:H). SiOx:H IRLs can signiﬁcantly reduce lateral shunting because of the lower lateral conductivities than ZnO IRLs. In addition, no additional step for the monolithic integration of a-Si:H/nc-Si:H tandem PV module is needed because SiOx:H IRLs could be removed together with adjacent Si layers in the step of the laser escribing. Hence, SiOx:H IRLs are the promising options for the cost- effective mass production. A micromorph tandem cell (a-Si:H/nc-Si:H) with a low refractive (n = 1.75) n-nc-SiOx:H IRL exhibits a certiﬁed stabilized efﬁciency of 12.63% (Boccard et al. 2014). 836 D. Wei et al. Present Status of Solar Cell Efficiency The extensive research efforts in recent years have led to new record efﬁciencies for both single-junction and multijunction solar cells. Table 3 lists the present status of the highest conversion efﬁciencies of nc-Si:H-based thin-ﬁlm solar cells around the world. It should be addressed that the active area efﬁciency is often calculated by subtracting the area shaded by the grid from the total cell area. As one can see from Table 3, the highest cell efﬁciency of single-junction nc-Si:H thin-ﬁlm solar cell to date is 11.8% made with a deposition rate of 1 nm/s at AIST (Sai et al. 2015) in Japan in 2015. The completed solar cell consists of the following layers from the bottom to the top: textured substrate/Ag/ZnO:Ga/(n) nc-SiOx:H/ (i) nc-Si:H/buffer/(p) nc-SiOx:H/TCO/Ag grid. The periodic honeycomb textures with rounded concaves on substrate and MOCVD-deposited ZnO:B instead of sputtered-ITO were introduced into the VHF-PECVD-fabricated nc-Si:H cells for efﬁciency improvement. Table 3 also includes the best a-Si:H/nc-Si:H micromorph tandem solar cells. So far, the highest initial efﬁciency of 14.4% was achieved for a cell (active area: 1.1 cm2) made at Delft University of Technology in 2015 (Tan et al. 2015). p-nc-SiOx:H window layer leads to the higher Voc and the better blue spectral response. The highest stabilized efﬁciency now stands at 12.63% for a micromorph Table 3 Present status of conversion efficiencies of nc-Si:H-based thin-film solar cells Cell structure Conﬁguration Initial efﬁciency (%) Stabilized efﬁciency (%) Organization Single junction nc-Si:H 11.80  AIST (Chen et al. 2014) Double junction a-Si:H/nc-Si:H 14.40  Delft University of Technology (Tan et al. 2015) Double junction a-Si:H/nc-Si:H 13.20 12.63 EPFL (Boccard et al. 2014) Triple junction a-Si:H/a-SiGe: H/nc-Si:H 16.3a  United Solar Ovonic (Yan et al. 2011) Triple junction a-Si:H/nc-Si:H/ nc-Si:H 14.50 14.04 AIST (Sai et al. 2016) Triple junction a-SiOx:H/a-Si: H/nc-Si:H 12.58  Delft University of Technology (Kim et al. 2015) Quadruple- junction a-Si:H/a-Si:H/ nc-Si:H/nc-Si: H 14b 12.40 Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin (Kirner et al. 2015) aActive-area efﬁciency bAperture-area efﬁciency 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 837 tandem solar cell developed by inserting a silicon oxide (SiOx) ﬁlm with low refractive index as intermediate reﬂector in EPFL (Boccard et al. 2014). Multijunction solar cells with more than two component cells have also been attracted to further enhance cell efﬁciency and reduce light-induced degradation. The best triple-junction solar cell now reaches an initial active-area efﬁciency of 16.3% in a a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/nc-Si:H structure fabricated by United Solar Ovonic in 2011 (Yan et al. 2011). The standard n-type junction layer between the middle and bottom cells was replaced by nc-SiOx:H layer as both doped layer and intermediate reﬂector. AIST (Sai et al. 2016) achieved the highest stabilized efﬁciency of 14.04% in an a-Si:H/nc-Si: H/nc-Si:H triple-junction solar cell with the minimum light-induced degradation of 4% in 2016. They developed the a-Si:H top cell that is greatly stable against light soaking and investigated quantitatively the effect of current mismatch of component cells to ﬁnd the best balance. Quadruple-junction solar cell and module with a-Si:H/a-Si:H/nc-Si:H/ nc-Si:H conﬁguration were developed by Helmholtz-Zentrum Berlin (Kirner et al. 2015) in 2015. The 1  1 cm solar cell demonstrates the initial and stabilized efﬁciencies of 14.0% and 12.4%, respectively, while a mini-module with an aperture area of 61.44 cm2 shows the efﬁciency of 13.4% before and 12.0% after more than 1000 h of light soaking, respectively. The highlight of this quadruple-junction solar cell is the optimization of the doping concentration of nc-SiOx:H intermediate reﬂector. Conclusion and Prospects In the last decade, huge research efforts and advanced technologies have helped improve the performance of nc-Si:H thin-ﬁlm solar cells. However, the present highest efﬁciency is still much lower than the theoretical efﬁciency limit (over 30%) for nc-Si:H solar cells based on Shockley-Queisser (S-Q) detailed-balance model, leaving much room for further improvement. In addition, since most of the market is now occupied by competitive low-priced c-Si modules, thin-ﬁlm silicon modules are indeed under pressure to further enhance the efﬁciency. For nc-Si:H solar cells, defects in the bulk absorber and at interfaces still sink minority carriers, leading to the voltage loss, while strong current losses resulted from the insufﬁcient absorption of red and NIR light. Therefore, the general strategy to further improve solar cell efﬁciency includes two aspects. On one hand, although light management technologies have been widely implemented in recent years, the novel designs of cell structure will still be required to further increase the photocur- rent density by enhancing the light trapping and reducing parasitic absorptions of non-absorbing layers. On the other hand, further profound understanding and con- trolling of carrier recombination mechanisms in the device will also be required. Therefore, further research studies on advanced material engineering are still needed for carrier management including identiﬁcations of recombination centers such as bulk and interface defects, their energies, densities, passivation methods, their effects on electrical transport, etc. Aside from the routine approaches mentioned above, several novel methods for efﬁciency improvement are suggested as follows: 838 D. Wei et al. 1. Some novel and dedicated device structures are needed for further enhancement of light management in consideration of carrier management. (1) The emerging ﬁnely modulated textures such as multi-scale (micro- and nano-) double-texture in front or back electrode, double-side textures at both front and back electrode, etc., should be further studied by combining conventional micrometer-scale texture and subwavelength texture. Furthermore, the enhanced light trapping can also reduce the required thickness of the absorber, thereby reducing bulk recombination and light-induced degradation. (2) Distinguished from the present bottom-up random textures or simple periodic texture methods, novel top-down approaches, which are based on the further understanding and simulation of light reﬂection and/or diffraction theories, can be tried to develop ﬁnely designed periodic textures by lithography or other techniques for better light trapping effect. (3) The emerging physical ﬂat structure with optical texture effect can be further investigated. For example, the localized nonuniform distribution of refractive index can be intentionally achieved by adding the planarization process of top a-Si:H cell by etch-back or chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) method or inserting the 2-D photonic crystal in the cell. In addition, the contact-free remote texture can be applied by texturing glass substrate at air/glass interface or inserting a transparent layer (such as plastic) with ﬁne texture between the glass and air, so that TCO front electrode is not needed to be textured and silicon layer can be grown in a plat substrate. This will further improve the quality of the bulk absorber which is degraded by the textured substrate, reducing the recombination rate and the resulting Voc loss. 2. Multijunction solar cell technique is considered as another key approach to further improve cell efﬁciency. (1) For triple-junction solar cell, the higher efﬁciency can also be expected by new design of component cell bandgap. Simulation result shows the highest theoretical conversion efﬁciency of 21.4% is expected to be obtained when the bandgaps of the top, middle, and bottom cells are 2 eV, 1.45 eV, and 1.1 eV, respectively (Konagai 2011). Novel silicon alloys (e.g., SiOx:H, 2 eV) can be introduced to replace the a-Si:H (1.7 eV) in the typical triple-junction solar cell with a structure of a-Si:H/a-SiGe:H/nc-Si:H. In fact, SiOx:H alloys have emerged as the absorber material in the top cell of a-SiOx:H/a-Si:H/nc-Si:H triple-junction solar cell (Kim et al. 2015). To date, few works for SiOx:H/a- SiGe:H/nc-Si:H structure have been done, and this structure is expected to further increase the efﬁciency by improving the Voc and other aspects. (2) More efforts on the emerging quadruple-junction soar cells should be taken to further improve the efﬁciency. The maximum initial efﬁciency of 19.8% has been theoretically simu- lated and projected for quadruple-junction soar cells (Isabella et al. 2014). References J. Bailat, E. Vallat-Sauvain, L. Feitknecht, C. Droz, A. Shah, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 299302, 1219 (2002) M. Boccard, M. Despeisse, J. Escarre, X. Niquille, G. Bugnon, S. Hanni, M. Bonnet-Eymard, F. Meillaud, C. Ballif, IEEE J. Photovoltaics 4, 1368 (2014) 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 839 P. Buehlmann, J. Bailat, D. Domine, A. Billet, F. Meillaud, A. Feltrin, C. Ballif, Appl. Phys. Lett. 91, 143505 (2007) P. Chen, P. Chen, M. Hsiao, C. Hsu, C. Tsai, Int. J. Photoenergy 2016, 8172518 (2016) T. Chen, F. Köhler, A. Heidt, R. Carius, F. Finger, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 53, 05FM04 (2014) A. Chowdhury, S. Mukhopadhyay, S. Ray, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 93, 597 (2009) R. Gordon, J. Proscia, F.B. Ellis, A.E. Delahoy, Solar Energy Mater. 18, 263 (1989) L. Guo, M. Kondo, M. Fukawa, K. Saitoh, A. Matsuda, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 37, L1116 (1998) S. Hanni, M. Boccard, G. Bugnon, M. Despeisse, J.W. Schuttauf, F.J. Haug, F. Meillaud, C. Ballif, Phys. Status Solidi Appl. Mater. Sci. 212, 840 (2015) M. Heintze, R. Zedlitz, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 198200, 1038 (1996) A. Hongsingthong, T. Krajangsang, A. Limmanee, K. Sriprapha, J. Sritharathikhun, M. Konagai, Thin Solid Films 537, 291 (2013) C.H. Hsu, Y.S. Lin, Y.S. Cho, S.Y. Lien, P. Han, D.S. Wuu, IEEE J. Quantum Electron. 50, 515 (2014) O. Isabella, A.H.M. Smets, M. Zeman, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 129, 82 (2014) S.J. Jones, R. Crucet, M. Izu, in 28th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, Anchorage, Alaska, 2000, pp. 134137 T. Kamei, T. Wada, J. Appl. Phys. 96, 2087 (2004) T. Kilper, W. Beyer, G. Bräuer, T. Bronger, R. Carius, M.N. van den Donker, D. Hrunski, A. Lambertz, T. Merdzhanova, A. Mück, B. Rech, W. Reetz, R. Schmitz, U. Zastrow, A. Gordijn, J. Appl. Phys. 105, 074509 (2009) D.Y. Kim, E. Guijt, F.T. Si, R. Santbergen, J. Holovský, O. Isabella, R.A.C.M.M. van Swaaij, M. Zeman, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 141, 148 (2015) S. Kirner, S. Neubert, C. Schultz, O. Gabriel, B. Stannowski, B. Rech, R. Schlatmann, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 54, 08KB03 (2015) S. Klein, F. Finger, R. Carius, M. Stutzmann, J. Appl. Phys. 98, 024905 (2005) M. Konagai, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 50, 30001 (2011) N. Kosku, S. Miyazaki, Thin Solid Films 511512, 265 (2006) J. Ma, J. Ni, J. Zhang, Z. Huang, G. Hou, X. Chen, X. Zhang, X. Geng, Y. Zhao, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 114, 9 (2013) Y. Mai, S. Klein, R. Carius, H. Stiebig, X. Geng, F. Finger, Appl. Phys. Lett. 87, 073503 (2005) T. Matsui, M. Kondo, A. Matsuda, in 3rd World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion, Osaku, 2003, pp. 15481551 J. Meier, S. Dubail, R. Flückiger, D. Fischer, H. Keppner, A. Shah, in Proceedings of the 1st IEEE World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion, Hawaii, 1994, pp. 409412 F. Meillaud, A. Feltrin, D. Dominé, P. Buehlmann, M. Python, G. Bugnon, A. Billet, G. Parascandolo, J. Bailat, S. Fay, N. Wyrsch, C. Ballif, A. Shah, Philos. Mag. 89, 2599 (2009) J. Merten, J.M. Asensi, C. Voz, A. Shah, R. Platz, J. Andreu, IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 45, 423 (1998) B.Y. Moon, J.H. Youn, S.H. Won, J. Jang, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 69, 139 (2001) E. Moulin, M. Steltenpool, M. Boccard, G. Bugnon, M. Stuckelberger, E. Feuser, B. Niesen, R. Van Erven, J. Sch, F. Haug, C. Ballif, IEEE J. Photovoltaics 4, 1177 (2014) J. Müller, B. Recha, J. Springer, M. Vanecek, Sol. Energy 77, 917 (2004) S.Y. Myong, K. Sriprapha, S. Miyajima, A. Yamad, M. Konagai, Appl. Phys. Lett. 90, 263509 (2007) A. Polman, M. Knight, E.C. Garnett, B. Ehrler, W.C. Sinke, Science 352, aad4424 (2016) M. Python, O. Madani, D. Dominé, F. Meillaud, E. Vallat-Sauvain, C. Ballif, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 93, 1714 (2009) J.K. Rath, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 76, 431 (2003) H. Sai, K. Saito, M. Kondo, Appl. Phys. Lett. 101, 1 (2012) H. Sai, K. Maejima, T. Matsui, T. Koida, M. Kondo, S. Nakao, Y. Takeuchi, H. Katayama, I. Yoshida, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 54, 08KB05 (2015) 840 D. Wei et al. H. Sai, T. Matsui, K. Matsubara, Appl. Phys. Lett. 109, 1 (2016) S. Schicho, F. Köhler, R. Carius, A. Gordijn, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 98, 391 (2012) R.E.I. Schropp, M. Zeman, Amorphous and Microcrystalline Solar Cells: Modeling, Materials, and Device Technology, 1st edn. (Springer, New York, 1998) C.S. Schuster, Diffractive Optics for Thin-Film Silicon Solar Cells, 1st edn. (Springer, Cham, 2017) A. Tamang, H. Sai, V. Jovanov, S.I.H. Bali, K. Matsubara, D. Knipp, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 151, 81 (2016) H. Tan, P. Babal, M. Zeman, A.H.M. Smets, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 132, 597 (2015) J. Tauc, R. Grigorovici, A. Vancu, Phys. Status Solidi 15, 627 (1966) M.N. Van Den Donker, S. Klein, B. Rech, F. Finger, W.M.M. Kessels, M.C.M. Van De Sanden, Appl. Phys. Lett. 90, 183504 (2007) O. Vetterl, F. Finger, R. Carius, P. Hapke, L. Houben, O. Kluth, A. Lambertz, A. Mück, B. Rech, H. Wagner, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 62, 97 (2000) D.Y. Wei, Ph.D. thesis, Nanyang Technological University, 2014 D.Y. Wei, S.Q. Xiao, S.Y. Huang, C.S. Chan, H.P. Zhou, L.X. Xu, Y.N. Guo, J.W. Chai, S.J. Wang, S. Xu, J. Phys. D. Appl. Phys. 46, 215501 (2013) S. Xu, K.N. Ostrikov, Y. Li, E.L. Tsakadze, I.R. Jones, Phys. Plasmas 8, 2549 (2001) E. Yablanovitch, G.G. Cody, IEEE Trans. Elec. Dev. ED-29, 300 (1982) B. Yan, G. Yue, L. Sivec, J. Yang, S. Guha, C.S. Jiang, Appl. Phys. Lett. 99, 113512 (2011) 23 Nanocrystalline Silicon and Solar Cells 841 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 24 Yunqing Cao and Jun Xu Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 844 Fabrication of Size-Controllable Nanocrystalline Si-Based Multilayers ....................... 847 The General Idea to Get Size-Controllable nc-Si Dots in Multilayered Structures ........ 848 Fabrication of nc-Si/SiO2 Multilayers ....................................................... 849 Fabrication of nc-Si/SiC Multilayers ........................................................ 851 Size-Dependent Photovoltaic Properties of Hetero-junction Solar Cells Containing nc-Si/SiC Multilayers .................................................. 855 Photovoltaic Properties of Hetero-junction Solar Cells Containing nc-Si/SiC Multilayers ........................................................... 856 Size-Dependent Optical and Photovoltaic Properties of nc-Si/SiC Multilayers ............ 859 Broadband Spectral Response for Hetero-junction Solar Cell Containing Graded-Sized nc-Si/SiC Multilayers ...................................... 861 Study of Fabrication and Photovoltaic Properties of All-nc-Si-Based Solar Cells ......... 863 Light Harvesting and Enhanced Performance of nc-Si-Based Hetero-junction Solar Cells Fabricated on Nanopatterned Substrates ........................................................................................ 864 Preparation of Nanopatterned Si Structures for nc-Si-Based Solar Cells .......................................................................................... 864 Enhanced Performance of nc-Si-Based Hetero-junction Solar Cells Fabricated on Si Nanowire Substrates ................................................ 867 Y. Cao (*) National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures and School of Electronic Science and Engineering, The Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China College of Physics Science and Technology, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, China e-mail: yqcao@yzu.edu.cn J. Xu National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures and School of Electronic Science and Engineering, The Collaborative Innovation Center of Advanced Microstructures, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China e-mail: junxu@nju.edu.cn  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_30 843 High Efﬁciency Solar Cell Containing Graded-Sized nc-Si/Si NWs Hetero-junction Structure ...................................................................................... 872 Conclusion ....................................................................................... 873 Cross-References ................................................................................ 876 References ....................................................................................... 876 Abstract Nanocrsytalline Silicon (nc-Si) is a promising material to develop the next generation of solar cells since it can efﬁciently absorb the incident solar light in a wide spectral range via the size modulation. The idea of all Si-based tandem type solar cells containing the sub-cells with various bandgaps motivates the extensive studies on the synthesis, physical properties, as well as the device applications of nc-Si material. Currently, the fabrication of size-controllable nc-Si is one of the challenging issues and the utilization of nc-Si in actual photovoltaic device is still at the stage of exploration. In this chapter, we describe the preparation of size-controllable nc-Si dots in multilayer by using thermally annealing or laser crystallization technique to crystallize amorphous Si/SiO2 or amorphous Si/SiC stacked structures. It is shown that the dot size can be well conﬁned with the initial amorphous Si layer thickness and the size-dependent properties are observed. The chapter focuses on the utilization of prepared nc-Si- based multilayers in prototype hetero-junction solar cells. The photovoltaic properties with different dot size, surrounding insulator materials, as well as the novel grade-sized structures are present. Furthermore, the efforts to improve the device performance by combining light trapping structures with nc-Si-based multilayers are introduced. Keywords Size-controllable nanocrsytalline silicon (nc-Si)  Si/SiC multilayers  Solar cell  Size-dependent photovoltaic properties  Graded-sized nc-Si  All-nc-Si-based solar cell  Light trapping effect  Si nanowires (Si NWs) Introduction Silicon (Si) is the dominant material in todays photovoltaic (PV) industry because of its abundance, nontoxicity, and contaminant-free and mature fabrication process though it is not the most suitable PV material if one considers its relatively narrow bandgap (1.1 eV). The so-called ﬁrst generation solar cells, which include single crystalline silicon (c-Si) and multicrystalline silicon (mc-Si) solar cells, exhibit the quite high power conversion efﬁciency (PCE) and stability, and the recorded PCE is as high as 25%. In order to reduce the cost of PV devices, mainly due to the Si wafers, it was proposed to develop the thin ﬁlm technology (or the second gener- ation technology) and amorphous Si (a-Si) thin ﬁlm solar cell is one of the candidates. Regardless of the semiconductor involved, thin ﬁlm technology offers 844 Y. Cao and J. Xu prospects for a large reduction in material costs by eliminating the costs of the Si wafer. Figure 1 shows the PCE of Si-based solar cells varying with time reported by the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL). It is found that on the efﬁ- ciency front, with time, the PCE of the second generation a-Si solar cells increased steadily close to that of ﬁrst generation solar cells. However, the serious stability problem impedes the wide use of thin ﬁlm a-Si solar cells. However, as shown in Fig. 2 (Conibeer et al. 2006), for a single p-n junction crystalline silicon solar cell, the maximum theoretical power conversion efﬁciency is only 29.8%, because of the incomplete utilization of high energy photons and the transmission of photons with less energy than the Si bandgap, which is called the Shockley-Quessier limit (S-Q limit) (Shockley and Queisser 1961). Conse- quently, the concept of third generation technology was proposed which aims to exceed the S-Q limit together with reducing the cost of Si-based solar cells. The third generation technology includes several approaches such as increasing the number of bandgaps (tandem solar cells), capturing carriers before thermalization (hot carrier solar cells), and multiple carrier pair generation per high energy photon (up-conversion solar cells) or single carrier pair generation with multiple low energy photons (down-conversion solar cells). One of the promising methods is to form all Si-based tandem solar cell (or multijunction solar cell) by using a stack of Si-based solar cells, in which each cell has a bandgap that is optimized for the absorption of a certain spectral region. Figure 3 shows the schematic diagrams of two-junction and three-junction tandem solar cell structures. The efﬁciency limits for tandem solar cells can be theoretically computed considering: (a) a perfect balance between top and bottom cell current densities and (b) the idealized case, where the bottom cell absorbs all the light transmitted by the top cell. The theoretical efﬁciency of two-junction tandem solar cell with a conventional bulk Si p-n junction bottom cell increases to 42.5% when one additional solar cell with bandgap of 1.7 eV is used, and to 47.5% with two further solar cells with bandgap of 1.5 eV and 2.0 eV placed on top of the bulk Si cell (Meillaud et al. 2006). Since the bandgap of nc-Si dots with three-dimension 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 15 18 21 24 27 30 PCE (%) Year Single Crystalline Si solar cells Multicrystalline Si solar cells Silicon heterostructure (HIT) solar cells Thin film amorphous Si solar cells Fig. 1 The PCE of Si-based solar cells varying with time reported by NREL (Copyright by the authors) 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 845 conﬁnement can be expended compared to that of the bulk counterpart and the gap is tunable with changing the dot size based on the quantum size effect, it provides an effective way to adjust the energy band structures to get better spectral matching. Therefore, it looks like that one can prepare the nc-Si dots with various sizes to get the suitable bandgaps as expected by the theoretical model, and how to get the size- controllable nc-Si material becomes the key issue for its application in the PV devices. So far, many approaches have been proposed to obtain nc-Si materials, including: (1) gas phase annealing Si nanoparticles synthesized by pulsed laser ablation (Hirasawa et al. 2006); (2) fabrication of nc-Si directly on ultrathin thermally grown SiO2 layers by controlling the early stages of low pressure chemical vapor deposition (LPCVD) by using SiH4 (Miyazaki et al. 2008); (3) implantation of Si+ ions into SiO2 ﬁlms with subsequently high temperature annealing or by directly annealing the substoichiometric SiOx (x  2) ﬁlms (Kanemitsu et al. 1996); (4) Ar+ Fig. 2 Loss processes in a standard solar cell: (1) nonabsorption of below bandgap photons; (2) lattice thermalization loss; (3) and (4) junction and contact voltage losses; (5) recombination loss (Conibeer et al. 2006) (Copyright 2006 Elsevier) Fig. 3 The schematic diagrams of two-junction and three-junction tandem solar cell structures (Copyright by the authors) 846 Y. Cao and J. Xu laser or KrF excimer pulsed laser irradiation of ultrathin amorphous Si ﬁlms (Xu et al. 2005). For example, Pavesi et al. prepared nc-Si by negative ion implan- tation into ultra-pure quartz substrates or into thermally grown silicon dioxide layers on Si substrates, followed by high-temperature thermal annealing (1100 C for 1 h). The size of obtained nc-Si was about 3 nm (Pavesi et al. 2000). Park et al. fabricated a-Si nanoparticles in plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) system by using nitrogen-diluted SiH4 and pure N2. The size of a-Si nanoparticles could be controlled by the additional N2 ﬂow rate (Park et al. 2001). Besides, they fabricated nc-Si with high density of 1.1  1018 cm3 by using gas mixture of SiH4 and NH3 (Kim et al. 2006). Pai reported that by depositing Si-rich SiOx nanorod in nano- porous anodic aluminum oxide (AAO) membrane using PECVD, the spatially conﬁned synthesis of nc-Si could be obtained after low-temperature annealing (Pai and Lin 2011). However, precisely controlling the dot size of nc-Si is still a challenging topic nowadays. In order to control the dot size, the multilayered structures containing nc-Si dots were proposed and studied. For example, Cho et al. fabricated multiple alternate layers of amorphous silicon-rich oxide (SiOx, x  2) and stoichiometric SiO2 by RF-magnetron sputtering. The nc-Si precipitated from the SiOx layers during subsequent high-temperature post-annealing (1100 C for 1.5 h) in a nitrogen atmosphere to form nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers (Cho et al. 2008). This chapter mainly brings out an overview of the fabrication and photovoltaic properties of hetero-junction solar cell devices based on nc-Si multilayers, especially nc-Si/SiC system. Preparation and structural characterization of nc-Si/SiO2 multi- layers and nc-Si/SiC multilayers are introduced in section Fabrication of Size- Controllable Nanocrystalline Si-based Multilayers. Afterwards, section Size- Dependent Photovoltaic Properties of Hetero-junction Solar Cells Containing nc-Si/SiC Multilayers summarizes the optical and photovoltaic properties of size- controllable nc-Si-based solar cells and graded-sized nc-Si-based solar cells. In order to further enhance the PCE of the solar cells, section Light Harvesting and Enhanced Performance of nc-Si-based Hetero-junction Solar Cells Fabricated on Nanopatterned Substrates reports the current ﬁndings on light management process by using nanopatterned Si substrates. Finally, section Conclusion summarizes the whole chapter and gives the future perspectives. Moreover, other types of crystalline Si or nanostructure Si-based solar cells are discussed in Chap. 22, Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film, and Chap. 26, Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells. Fabrication of Size-Controllable Nanocrystalline Si-Based Multilayers As mentioned before, nc-Si-based materials have shown potential application pros- pect in third generation photovoltaic technology because they can efﬁciently match a broad solar spectrum via band engineering, due to the quantum size effect. By restricting the dimensions of silicon to less than Bohr radius of bulk crystalline 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 847 silicon (almost 5 nm), quantum conﬁnement causes its effective bandgap to increase. If these dots are close together, carriers can tunnel between them to produce nc-Si superlattices. In such superlattices, nc-Si can be fabricated by using magnetron sputtering (Cho et al. 2008), e-beam evaporation (Martínez et al. 2011), plasma- enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) (Chen et al. 1992), and LPCVD (Kurokawa et al. 2006). In order to get size-controllable nc-Si superlattices to form minibands for carrier transfer, nc-Si dots are usually embedded in dielectric layers, such as SiO2, Si3N4, and SiC layers. The General Idea to Get Size-Controllable nc-Si Dots in Multilayered Structures Chens group ﬁrst proposed the constrained crystallization principle in order to get high density size-controllable nc-Si/SiN multilayers by laser-induced crystalliza- tion technique (Chen et al. 1992). Similarly, as shown in Fig. 4, nc-Si/SiO2, nc-Si/ Si3N4, and nc-Si/SiC multilayers can be fabricated by excimer laser crystallization or thermal annealing of a-Si/SiO2, a-Si/Si3N4, and a-Si/SiC stacked structures with ultrathin a-Si sublayers. During the annealing process, a-Si crystallization would be constrained by the interfaces between a-Si and the dielectric layers, to form nc-Si with uniform size. It was found that the size of formed nc-Si dots in the multilayers can be well controlled. Consequently, it provides an effective way to obtain size-controllable nc-Si-based multilayers by changing the a-Si sublayer thickness. The molecular dynamics simulations based on the Tersoff potential was performed to investigate the crystallization mechanism of ultrathin a-Si ﬁlm under laser irradiation with various conditions (Chen et al. 2012). It is interesting to ﬁnd that the initial nucleation has occurred randomly in the whole a-Si ﬁlm. The proper laser ﬂuence leads to high crystallization ratio and high density nc-Si, and the nucleation rate is about 3.59  108 at 1800 K and increases to 3.30  107 at 2000 K. It is suggested that the low cooling rate of a-Si layer can enlarge the nc-Si to Fig. 4 The schematic diagrams of the constrained crystallization principle (Copyright by the authors) 848 Y. Cao and J. Xu the size of 26 nm and enhance the crystallization ratio. The constraint effect of thickness of a-Si ﬁlms on the crystallization of a-Si has been proved by molecular dynamics simulations. The theoretical simulation indicates that the constraint crys- tallization technique is appropriated to get the uniformly distributed monolayer nc-Si dots with the size less than 10 nm. So far, it has been widely applied to fabricated size-controllable nc-Si by using the a-Si-based multilayers. For example, Zacharias et al. produced a-Si/SiO2 multi- layers by RF-magnetron sputtering and plasma oxidation. Nanosized Si crystals were formed after thermal annealing. In contrast to conventional one-step annealing crystallization technique, they used two-steps annealing process to get nc-Si, which included rapid thermal annealing (6001000 C for 4060 s) and long-time thermal annealing (1050 C for 15 min). It indicates that during the rapid thermal annealing process, a-Si will crystallize rapidly and the crystallization density will be high. After long time quasi-static thermal annealing, nc-Si with controllable size and good disparity can be obtained because of the growth and self-puriﬁcation process (Zach- arias et al. 1999). Later, Heitmanns group reported a relatively new approach for tight control of nc-Si dot size by using the phase separation of ultra SiOx layers with SiOx/SiO2 multilayers, where 1  x  2 (Zacharias et al. 2002). The phase separation was a well-deﬁned process in the formation of a-Si clusters in SiO2 matrix at lower annealing temperature. Quantum conﬁnement effect of nc-Si was investi- gated and room-temperature PL was observed. Moreover, the size of nc-Si could be controlled by the thickness and the x rate of SiOx layer (Li et al. 2002). In a word, using different thin ﬁlm techniques including magnetron sputtering, e-beam evaporation, and pulsed laser deposition (PLD), a-Si-base sandwich or multilayered structures with clear and abrupt interfaces can be successfully fabri- cated, such as a-Si/SiO2, a-Si/SiNx, and a-Si/SiC multilayers. After post-laser or thermal annealing process, size-controllable nc-Si will be obtained in initial ultrathin a-Si sublayers, which can be attributed to the constrained crystallization principle. Fabrication of nc-Si/SiO2 Multilayers The nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers can be obtained by thermally annealing a-Si/SiO2 stacked structure prepared in a conventional PECVD system with a RF of 13.56 MHz as shown in Fig. 5. During the deposition process, the RF power was kept at 50 Wand the substrate temperature was ﬁxed at 250 C. The a-Si:H sublayers were deposited using a pure silane gas with a ﬂow rate of 5 sccm for 15 s. Subsequently, in situ plasma oxidation was performed to form ultrathin SiO2 sub- layers using oxygen with ﬂow rate of 20 sccm for 90 s. The thickness of a-Si:H sublayer and SiO2 sublayer was designed to be 2.5 nm and 2 nm, respectively. These processes were alternatively changed and a SiO2 lapping layer was deposited on the top surface of the ﬁlm. After deposition, the as-deposited samples were ﬁrst dehydrogenated at 450 C and then annealed at 1000 C both in N2 ambient for 1 h (Zhang et al. 2014a). 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 849 Figure 5a and b shows the cross-sectional transmission electron microscopy (TEM) images of as-deposited and 1000 C annealed Si/SiO2 multilayers. The stacked layers are clearly identiﬁed in TEM images, and the periodic structures can be kept even after thermal annealing at high temperature as shown in Fig. 5b. The thickness of nc-Si and SiO2 sublayer well agrees with the predesigned value. The formation of nc-Si dots are further veriﬁed by high resolution TEM image as given in the inset of Fig. 5b. It is shown that the formed nc-Si dot has a size of 2.5 nm in vertical (growth) direction with slightly larger lateral size. Figure 6 is the optical absorbance spectrum of nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers in the wavelength range of 2001100 nm. It is shown that the absorbance is quite weak at the long wavelength region and the absorbance becomes strong when the wave- length is shorter than 600 nm. From absorbance spectrum, one can calculate the absorption coefﬁcient and the optical bandgap can be deduced according to the Taucs plot, which is 2.1 eV (Tauc et al. 1966). The large bandgap of nc-Si compared with that of bulk Si is expected due to the quantum conﬁnement effect. An intense photoluminescence (PL) is observed at room temperature for nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers under a 325 nm laser excitation. The PL spectrum is also given in Fig. 6, which shows a broad luminescence band centered at 870 nm (1.4 eV). It is noticeable that there is a large stoke shift between the absorption edge and emission band as shown in Fig. 6, which suggests that the emission is mainly via the gap states instead of the band-to-band recombination of photo-excited electron-hole pairs within nc-Si (Zhang et al. 2014b). In addition, by controlling the dot size, the light absorption and optical bandgap of nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers can be obviously shifted due to quantum conﬁnement effect. In contrast, the light emission wavelength was almost unchanged. Qin attributed this visible light emission to the nc-Si/SiO2 interfacial states (Qin et al. 1998). The initial effort to get nc-Si-based solar cells was made by designing nc-Si/c-Si hetero-junction solar cells containing nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers. Cho et al. fabricated Fig. 5 The cross-sectional TEM micrographs of (a) as-deposited a-Si/SiO2 multilayers and (b) nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers annealed at 1000 C (Zhang et al. 2014b) (Copyright 2014 Elsevier) 850 Y. Cao and J. Xu a phosphorus-doped nc-Si/SiO2 superlattice as an active layer on a p-type crystalline silicon substrate as a hetero-junction solar cell. Phosphorus-doped nc-Si/SiO2 super- lattices were fabricated by alternate deposition of a SiO2 layer and a SiOx layer, using Si, SiO2, and P2O5 as the targets in RF magnetron sputtering system. The dot size of nc-Si could be tunable as 3, 4, 5, and 8 nm with changing the x rate (Cho et al. 2008). It was demonstrated that the optical bandgap of the nc-Si/SiO2 superlattice depended on the dot size. Temperature-dependent dark I-V measure- ments suggest that the carrier transport in the devices was controlled by recombina- tion in the space-charge region. It was found that the IQE was very high in the short wavelength region for 3 nm nc-Si, while there was poorer response in the high energy region for the 8 nm nc-Si device. The spectral response wavelength was red shift from 500 nm to about 700 nm with increasing the size of nc-Si, which can be attributed to the quantum conﬁnement effect (Park et al. 2009). Furthermore, the prototype p-i-n solar cell device containing intrinsic nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers was fabricated, which exhibit the photovoltaic properties with the PCE of 3.1%, preliminarily (Xu et al. 2014). This low PCE result is mainly due to the large band offset between Si and SiO2, which may deteriorate low carrier tunneling probability and deteriorate the performance of devices. Compared with SiO2, amor- phous silicon carbide (a-SiC) has a lower bandgap, which is helpful for enhancing the carrier transport efﬁciency to improve the device performance. Hence, it is interesting to study the structural and physical properties of nc-Si embedded in amorphous SiC matrix. Fabrication of nc-Si/SiC Multilayers Recently, nc-Si embedded in amorphous SiC host matrix (nc-Si/SiC) ﬁlms have attracted much attention since they can be applied for many kinds of optoelectronic devices, such as the next generation of solar cells (Cheng et al. 2010) and light emitting devices (Chang et al. 2010). It was reported that the band offset both in conduction band and valence band for nc-Si/SiC superlattice is much lower Fig. 6 Absorbance and photoluminescence spectra of nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers (Zhang et al. 2014b) (Copyright 2014 Elsevier) 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 851 compared with other conventionally used dielectric materials (such as SiO2 and Si3N4) (Jiang and Green 2006). Moreover, the band offset difference between the conduction band and valence band is quite small which is also helpful for the electrons and holes transport and in turn to improve the device performance. In the previous work, Li prepared hydrogenated amorphous SiC (a-SiC:H) ﬁlms and studied the inﬂuences of the gas ratio (R = [CH4]/[SiH4]) on the structural and optical properties. It was found that optical bandgap was linearly proportional to carbon content in the ﬁlms, and it could be controlled in a range of 1.82.4 eV by changing the gas ratio. The photosensitivity can be as high as 104 for as-deposited sample with optical bandgap of 1.96 eV (Li et al. 2012). After thermal annealing process, a-SiCx was partly crystallized and the nc-Si/ SiC superlattice was formed. By adjusting x and post-annealing temperature, the size of nc-Si can be controlled from 1.4 nm to 4.2 nm accordingly. Size-dependent EL was observed, and the EL intensity was higher for the sample containing small- sized nc-Si, which can be attributed to the quantum conﬁnement effect. It was found that although the EL peak energy was as a function of the nc-Si size, the experimental results do not well match the effective mass approximation (EMA) model. This is because the inﬁnite conﬁned barrier potential is not a case in a real dielectric matrix, such as SiO2, Si3N4, and SiC. Then ﬁnite barrier potential will gain a decreased conﬁnement energy, particularly for nc-Si embedded in SiC matrix. Rui adopted the theoretical model of quantum conﬁnement effect based on the modiﬁed EMA with spherical nanocrystal dot and a ﬁnite barrier at the nc-Si/SiC interface to develop a modiﬁed EMA model (Rui et al. 2011). Consid- ering the Coulomb effect and the correlation energy terms, the optical bandgap (Eg opt) can be expressed as: Eopt g ¼ 1:12 eV ð Þ þ ΔEe, h, reduced  0:4512 R  0:003394 eV ð Þ (1) in which, 1.12 is the bandgap of crystalline silicon, R is the average diameter of nc-Si, 0.4512 is the Coulomb coefﬁcient, 0.003394 is the correlation energy terms, and ΔEe,h,reduced is the decreased conﬁnement energy related with the barrier height in conduction and valence band. Figure 7 shows the EL peak energy of nc-Si as a function of dot size. The experimental data are shown by ﬁlled circles. The solid line and dot line represents the theoretical results based on EMA model with inﬁnite and ﬁnite barrier potential, respectively. It is shown that the energy gap in ﬁnite barrier potential model is smaller than that in an inﬁnite barrier potential model. From the experimental data, one can deduce and well ﬁt the barrier height in conduction and valence band, which is 0.4 and 0.8 eV in our case, respectively. Therefore, the energy band diagram is shown in the inset of Fig. 7. In order to get high density size-controllable nc-Si/SiC superlattice for photovol- taic application, a-Si:H/SiC multilayers were ﬁrst prepared in conventional PECVD system. The thickness of a-Si:H was designed to be 4 nm and the thickness of amorphous SiC layer was 2 nm. Due to the constrained crystallization principle, nc-Si with controllable size were achieved by annealing the as-deposited samples 852 Y. Cao and J. Xu at 900 C for 1 h. Figure 8 shows the Raman spectra of as-deposited and 900 C annealed multilayered samples. It is noted that only one broad band centered at 480 cm1 exists in the as-deposited sample, which is attributed to the transverse optical (TO) mode of amorphous Si-Si bonds. However, an intense peak at 517 cm1 associated with crystallized Si TO mode appears for 900 C annealed sample, which indicates that the amorphous Si layers have been crystallized to form nano- crystallized Si. In order to estimate the crystallinity ratio and size of nc-Si, the Fig. 7 The EL peak energy of nc-Si as a function of dot size. Inset is the energy band diagram of nc-Si:SiC superlattice (Rui et al. 2011) (Reproduced from Journal of Applied Physics 110, 064322 (2011), with the permission of AIP Publishing.) Fig. 8 Raman spectra of as-deposited Si/SiC multilayers and 900 C annealed nc-Si/SiC multilayers (Cao et al. 2014) (Copyright by the authors) 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 853 Raman spectrum was ﬁtted via the Gaussian deconvolution by three components, which is located at 480 cm1, 510 cm1, and 520 cm1. The crystallinity ratio (Xc) is ﬁgured out as 49.5% by integrated Gaussian peaks of 520 cm1 and 480 cm1. The average size of nc-Si is about 4.8 nm, according to the phonon conﬁnement model, which indicates the formation of nc-Si. The structural change of the nc-Si/SiC multilayers after annealing was charac- terized by the cross-sectional TEM measurements. Figure 9a shows the cross- sectional TEM image of nc-Si/SiC multilayers after 900 C annealing. The layered structures and smooth interfaces can be clearly identiﬁed. The formation of nc-Si in a-Si layers can be identiﬁed in the high-resolution TEM image. As indicated in the inset of Fig. 9b, the crystalline interplanar spacing is 0.31 nm of formed Si QDs, which suggests the Si (111) crystalline faces. Figure 9c shows the nc-Si size distribution obtained from TEM image. It is found that the size of formed nc-Si is 4.9  0.3 nm. 1 0 5 10 15 20 Number of nc-Si 25 30 nc-Si size=4.90.3 nm 2 3 4 5 6 Diameter (nm) 7 8 9 (c) Fig. 9 (a) Cross-sectional TEM image of nc-Si /SiC multilayers; (b) High-resolution TEM image; (c) Size distribution of nc-Si (Copyright by the authors) 854 Y. Cao and J. Xu The optical properties of Si/SiC multilayers before and after annealing are studied by measuring the optical transmission spectra and reﬂection spectra in the spectral range of 200800 nm. The optical absorption coefﬁcient α is calcu- lated and given in Fig. 10. It is found that the optical absorption of as-deposited a-Si/SiC multilayers is quite high which is above 105 cm1 when the wavelength is less than 400 nm. However, the absorption coefﬁcient of 900 C annealed nc-Si/ SiC multilayers is much higher in the whole visible light region (300800 nm), which indicates that the nc-Si/SiC multilayers can strongly absorb the visible light photons, especially in short-wavelength range. Based on the Taucs model, the optical band gap of nc-Si/SiC multilayers can be deduced from the linear ﬁtting of (αhν)1/2 hν relationship, as shown in the inset of Fig. 10. The deduced optical bandgap of our nc-Si/SiC multilayers after 900 C annealing is 1.48 eV, which is blue shifted compared to that of crystallized Si, which can be attributed to the quantum size effect (Cao et al. 2014). According to formula (1), the estimated bandgap of nc-Si with dot size of 45 nm is 1.41.5 eV, which well agrees with the experimental result. Size-Dependent Photovoltaic Properties of Hetero-junction Solar Cells Containing nc-Si/SiC Multilayers Based on the structural and optical properties of prepared Si/SiC multilayers, the p-i- n device structures containing phosphorus-doped a-Si:H and nc-Si/SiC (or a-Si/SiC) multilayers on p-Si substrates were fabricated. Fig. 10 Optical absorption coefﬁcient spectra of as-deposited Si/SiC multilayers and 900 C annealed nc-Si/SiC multilayers. The inset is the (αhν)1/2 hν relationship of 900 C annealed sample (Cao et al. 2014) (Copyright by the authors) 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 855 Photovoltaic Properties of Hetero-junction Solar Cells Containing nc-Si/SiC Multilayers The prototype solar cell devices were fabricated by evaporating the Al strip-shaped electrode on the p-i-n structures, and the schematic diagram of the device structures is shown in Fig. 11a. Figure 11b is the photo of solar cell device and the cell area is about 0.8 cm2. Figure 12 shows the current-voltage (I-V) relationships of p-i-n structures with and without annealing. The rectiﬁcation characteristics are clearly observed for both samples which indicate that the p-i-n structures are well formed by the present approach. Compared with that of as-deposited sample, the reverse current of annealed sample is in the same order (102 mA at 3 V) while the forward current is increased by almost two orders of magnitude (from 100 mA to 102 mA at +3 V), which indicates that the rectiﬁcation ratio of 900 C annealed p-i-n structure reaches to 2  103 at the applied voltage V =  3 V. The increase in the forward current of annealed p-i-n sample can be attributed to the increase of the conductivity in crystallized Si layers. Figure 13 is the AM 1.5 (100 mW/cm2) illuminated I-V curves of solar cells based on as-deposited and 900 C annealed p-i-n structures. It is shown that the open circuit voltage (Voc), short circuit current density (Jsc), and ﬁll factor (FF) for device based on as-deposited p-i-n structure is 240 mV, 18.45 mA/cm2, and 37.1%, respectively. The PCE is about 1.64%. However, the device performance of p-i-n structure containing nc-Si/SiC multilayers after annealing is signiﬁcantly enhanced. The Voc is increased to 532 mVand the Jsc is increased to 24.13 mA/cm2 with the FF of 48.9% and the PCE reaches to 6.28%. The increased Voc of the Fig. 11 (a) The schematic diagram of the hetero-junction solar cells containing nc-Si/SiC multi- layers; (b) the photo of solar cell device (Copyright by the authors) 856 Y. Cao and J. Xu annealed cell compared to that of as-deposited one can be attributed to the increased ﬁlm quality as well as the improved p-i-n structure after annealing. For as-deposited sample containing a-Si: H/SiC multilayers, high density of defect states, such as dangling bonds and interface states between amorphous Si and SiC layers, may lead to the pining of the Fermi levels which results in the low Voc. After high temperature annealing, the ﬁlm quality can be signiﬁcantly improved, which is helpful for increasing Voc by reducing the defect states. Fig. 12 Current-voltage (I-V) relationships of p-i-n structures with and without annealing (Cao et al. 2014) (Copyright by the authors) Fig. 13 One-sun-illuminated I-V curves of p-i-n structures with and without annealing (Cao et al. 2014) (Copyright by the authors) 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 857 Moreover, post-annealing can also improve the p-i-n structure. As shown in Fig. 12, the obvious rectiﬁcation behavior can be observed in the annealed p-i-n structure. The shunt resistance of cell device is increased from 56 Ω to 108 Ω after annealing, which also indicates the improved p-i-n structure after annealing, due to the improved interface quality and the enhanced doping effect in n-a-Si layer by thermally activating dopants. The improvement in the cell performance for annealed sample can be attributed to the formation of nc-Si after 900 C annealing, which enhances the photon-generated carrier separation and carrier transportation properties due to the improved electronic property of p-i-n structure. In order to further understand the role of nc-Si in the present cell device, we measured the external quantum efﬁciency (EQE) of p-i-n device sample and compared with that of as-deposited one. Figure 14a is the EQE of p-i-n device structures containing as-deposited and 900 C annealed Si/SiC multilayers in the spectral range of 3001200 nm. It is found that in the long wavelength region, the EQE results for two cells are almost the same. However, the EQE is signiﬁcantly improved in the whole visible light region (300900 nm), which can be attributed to the contribution of the formed nc-Si in annealed sample. In our cell devices, part of the carriers was generated from Si substrates with the incident photons with long wavelength. They contributed to the Jsc both in as-deposited and annealed cells. In order to further investigate the contribution of nc-Si, the EQE result of p-i-n solar cell containing nc-Si/SiC multi- layers by subtracting the EQE of cell containing as-deposited one was investigated. As shown in Fig. 14b, the improved EQE is located in the spectral range of 3001000 nm with the peak at 500 nm. As mentioned before, the optical bandgap of the nc-Si/SiC multilayers in our case is about 1.5 eV (820 nm), the incident photons with high energy can be effectively absorbed by nc-Si to generate the electron-hole pairs which are separated by the built-in ﬁeld in p-i-n structure. The electrons and holes can be Fig. 14 (a) The EQE results of p-i-n structures with and without annealing; (b) The EQE results of p-i-n solar cell containing nc-Si/SiC multilayers by subtracting the EQE of cell containing as-deposited one (Cao et al. 2014) (Copyright by the authors) 858 Y. Cao and J. Xu effectively collected in annealed sample due to its improved carrier transportation properties as shown in Fig. 12. Size-Dependent Optical and Photovoltaic Properties of nc-Si/SiC Multilayers Size-controllable nc-Si/SiC multilayers were formed by thermal annealing the a-Si/SiC multilayers. During the deposition process, the thickness of a-Si:H was designed to be varied from 2 nm to 8 nm, and thickness of amorphous SiC layer was kept at 2 nm. Figure 15ac shows the high-resolution TEM images of different sized nc-Si/SiC multi- layers, which exhibit the formation of nc-Si. The crystallization of nc-Si was well constrained by the interfaces between a-Si and SiC layers and the size of nc-Si is controlled about 2.5 nm, 5.0 nm, and 9.0 nm, respectively. The absorption properties of nc-Si/SiC multilayers with various sizes were studied by measuring the optical transmis- sion spectra and reﬂection spectra in the spectral range of 200800 nm. The optical Fig. 15 The cross-sectional TEM images of (a) nc-Si (2 nm)/SiC (2 nm) multilayers; (b) nc-Si (4 nm)/SiC (2 nm) multilayers; (c) nc-Si (8 nm)/SiC (2 nm) multilayers 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 859 absorption coefﬁcient α is calculated. Based on the Taucs plot, the optical bandgap of nc-Si/SiC multilayers can be deduced from the linear ﬁtting of (αhν)1/2 hν relationship. The deduced optical bandgap of nc-Si/SiC multilayers is 2.0, 1.5, and 1.2 eV, respectively, which well agrees with the deduced result of the modiﬁed EMA model, as mentioned before. Hetero-junction solar cells containing controllable sized-nc-Si/SiC multilayers were fabricated and the EQE spectra were collected by the spectral response measurement system in the wavelength range of 3001200 nm. Figure 16 is the EQE of hetero-junction solar cells. It is clearly shown that the EQE for nc-Si/SiC multilayers is gradually shifted to the short wavelength side with reducing the dot size from 8 nm to 2 nm. As discussed before, the improved EQE is located in the spectral range of 400800 nm with the peak at 500 nm, which can be attributed to the formation of nc-Si. So the size-dependent EQE results can be explained in terms of the enlarged optical bandgap on account of the quantum size effect. In our case, the PCE of hetero-junction solar cells is 6.19%, 6.28%, and 5.38%, as the size of nc-Si from 2, 4, 8 nm. Optical and photoluminescence properties of controllable sized-nc-Si/SiC multi- layers were studied by Yamada and his coworkers. Kurokawa successfully prepared nc-Si/SiC multilayers by the thermal annealing of stoichiometric hydrogenated amorphous silicon carbide (a-SiC:H)/silicon-rich hydrogenated amorphous silicon carbide (a-Si1-xCx) multilayers (Kurokawa et al. 2006). By using hydrogen plasma treatment (HPT), enhanced photoluminescence of nc-Si was observed. In contrast with nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers, nc-Si embedded in SiC matrix showed size-dependent photoluminescence. The luminescence peaks shifted to shorter wavelength with decreasing the diameter of nc-Si (Kurokawa et al. 2007). Furthermore, in order to suppress the crystallization of a-SiC phase during the high temperature annealing process, O-containing nc-Si superlattices were prepared and the dark conductivity was reduced, suggesting that the leakage in barrier layers was suppressed and the carrier transport through nc-Si became predominant (Kurokawa et al. 2010). 300 600 900 1200 0 20 40 60 80 EQE (%) Wavelength (nm) Si(2nm)/SiC(2nm) Si(4nm)/SiC(2nm) Si(8nm)/SiC(2nm) Fig. 16 The EQE spectra of hetero-junction solar cells containing controllable sized- nc-Si/SiC multilayers 860 Y. Cao and J. Xu Broadband Spectral Response for Hetero-junction Solar Cell Containing Graded-Sized nc-Si/SiC Multilayers As before, hetero-junction solar cells containing controllable sized-nc-Si/SiC multi- layers were fabricated, and size-dependent optical and photovoltaic properties were demonstrated. However, up to now, the used multilayers containing nc-Si with ﬁxed size in one cell device and in turn the corresponding bandgap and spectral response is limited in a certain wavelength range. To further expand the spectral response range and improve the cell performance, Cao proposed a novel device structure by using graded-sized nc-Si instead of the ﬁxed-sized one in the same multilayered structure to form hetero-junction solar cells to realize the wide and efﬁcient spectral response and improve the device performance (Cao et al. 2015). In order to get graded-sized nc-Si/SiC stacked structures, the graded thickness a-Si:H/SiC multilayers were fabricated with a-Si sublayers thickness of 8 nm, 4 nm, and 2 nm from the bottom to the top. Figure 17a is the cross-sectional TEM image of as-deposited graded sized a-Si (8, 4, 2 nm)/a-SiC (2 nm) multilayers. The layered structures and smooth interfaces of Si/SiC can be clearly identiﬁed. The thickness of a-SiC sublayers is 1.95 nm and the thickness of a-Si sublayers is 8.4 nm, 4.3 nm, and 2.1 nm, respectively. Figure 17b is the cross-sectional TEM image of the sample annealing at 900 C, which exhibits the formed nc-Si after annealing. The layered structures are well kept and the interfaces are still smooth. The formation of nc-Si with different size in a-Si layers can be identiﬁed. Figure 18a is the EQE of p-i-n device structures containing graded-sized nc-Si/ SiC multilayers together with the periodic ones. It is interesting to ﬁnd that the EQE of solar cell containing graded-sized nc-Si/SiC multilayers is obviously enhanced in a wide spectral range (4001200 nm), compared with that of the conventional Fig. 17 Cross-sectional TEM image of (a) as-deposited graded-sized Si/SiC multilayers; (b) 900 C annealed graded-sized nc-Si/SiC multilayers (Cao et al. 2015) (Copyright 2015 Royal Society of Chemistry) 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 861 periodic nc-Si/SiC multilayers-based solar cells. At the wavelength of 500 nm, the EQE is increased from 47.6% to 64.4%. It is because that the graded-sized nc-Si- based cell has the graded optical bandgap from the top to bottom, the incident solar photons with short wavelength (high energy) can be ﬁrst absorbed by the smaller- sized nc-Si, and the photons wavelength (low energy) will penetrate the top layers and efﬁciently be absorbed by the following layers with gradually enlarged nc-Si and Si substrate, which effectively reduce the heat loss and enhance the optical absorp- tion as revealed by our results. It is worth noting that even at the wavelength of 300 nm, the EQE is also increased from 1.3% to 3.5%, compared with that of the conventional periodic nc-Si/SiC multilayers-based cell. As a consequence, the calculated short circuit current density is improved due to the more incident photons can be utilized to photo-electric conversion. Figure 18b shows the AM 1.5G (100 mW/cm2) illuminated current density-voltage (J-V) characteristics of p-a-Si/ (nc-Si/SiC) multilayers/n-Si hetero-junction solar cells. It is found that the cell Fig. 18 (a) EQE spectra of solar cells containing graded- sized nc-Si/SiC and nc-Si/SiC periodic multilayers; (b) The measured illuminated JV characteristics of solar cells containing graded-sized nc-Si/ SiC and nc-Si/SiC periodic multilayers (Cao et al. 2015) (Copyright 2015 Royal Society of Chemistry) 862 Y. Cao and J. Xu containing graded-sized nc-Si/SiC multilayers has higher short current than the periodic ones, as expected by the EQE spectra, while almost the same open circuit voltage and ﬁll factor. As given in Table 1, the cell containing graded-sized nc-Si (8, 4, 2 nm)/SiC(2 nm) multilayers has a Voc of 510 mV, a Jsc of 28.36 mA/cm2, a ﬁll factor of 51.5%, and a PCE of 7.45%. Study of Fabrication and Photovoltaic Properties of All-nc-Si-Based Solar Cells Usually, nc-Si-based hetero-junction solar cells are all fabricated on c-Si substrates to get the observable efﬁciency. As a result, most of the light in this type of solar cell devices is absorbed in the Si substrates, which has been revealed in the EQE results. The role of nc-Si in the solar cells is still not clear enough. Wurﬂet al. made the initial effort to fabricated p-i-n structures containing nc-Si by sputtering SiO2/SRO multilayers onto quartz substrates with in-situ boron (B) and phosphorous (P) doping and then 1100 C annealing. Al electrodes were evaporated on the top of B-doped layer and the bottom of P-doped layer to obtain the all-nc-Si-based solar cell device with area of 2.2 mm2. The device showed a rectifying behavior with the Voc of 492 mV under a simulated AM 1.5 illumination. A circuit model was then proposed to explain the observed I-V characteristics (Wurﬂet al. 2012). Löpers group present a novel device structure containing nc-Si/SiC superlattice but without any c-Si for the electrically active parts, in order to clearly investigate the properties of nc-Si- based device alone. In this device structure, the c-Si substrate was locally removed by chemical etching for full ﬂexibility regarding the electron and hole selective contacts. This enabled large-area rear side access to the nc-Si layer and represents a nanocrystalline membrane fully accessible from both sides (Löper et al. 2012). The Voc was 282 mVand the Jsc was 0.339 mA/cm2. Due to this low value, only 6.8% of the optically generated current was collected under short circuit conditions. It shows that besides the optimization of the effective band gap of the material, special emphasis on the electronic quality is to be given in future material development (Löper et al. 2013). Yamada et al. fabricated the solar cell structure of n++-type poly silicon/nondoped (O-containing nc-Si/SiC multilayers)/p-type a-Si/Al electrode on a quartz substrate and successfully observed the photovoltaic properties (Yamada et al. 2010). Then they added a niobium-doped titanium dioxide (TiO2:Nb) barrier layer to reduce the phosphorous diffusion and get the improved photo-generated carrier Table 1 The summarized photovoltaic parameters of cell devices (Cao et al. 2015) (Copyright 2015 Royal Society of Chemistry) Voc (mV) Jsc (mA/cm2) FF (%) PCE (%) Si(2nm)/SiC(2nm) 513 25.23 47.8 6.19 Si(4nm)/SiC(2nm) 502 24.18 52.1 6.32 Si(8nm)/SiC(2nm) 504 23.43 51.2 6.05 Si(8,4,2nm)/SiC(2nm) 510 28.36 51.5 7.15 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 863 collection in the nc-Si layer. As a result, The Jsc of the solar cell with the diffusion barrier layer was signiﬁcantly improved to 1.6 mA/cm2 without any degradation of open circuit voltage and ﬁll factor (Yamada et al. 2013). Light Harvesting and Enhanced Performance of nc-Si-Based Hetero-junction Solar Cells Fabricated on Nanopatterned Substrates As discussed above, a p-i-n device structure was proposed, in which ultrathin nc-Si/SiC multilayers were used as intrinsic layer embedded in n-a-Si and p-type crystalline Si substrate. It was found that the improvement in EQE result for annealed cell device can be attributed to the formation of nc-Si which enhanced the absorption of incident photons, especially in the short wavelength range and the carrier transport process. Size-dependent optical and photovoltaic properties were demonstrated. Moreover, a novel device structure containing graded-sized nc-Si/SiC multilayers was proposed to get enhanced broadband spectral response and energy conversion efﬁciency. However, the ultrathin nc-Si layers with the total thickness around several ten to hundred nanometers will result in a poor optical absorption. On the other hand, high density of surface and interface states intro- duced by increasing ﬁlm thickness (or periodicity of multilayers) will also dete- riorate the cell performance. Therefore, it is necessary to seek an appropriate way to reduce the reﬂection and enhance the optical absorption of ultrathin nc-Si-based multilayers in a wide spectral range. Preparation of Nanopatterned Si Structures for nc-Si-Based Solar Cells Light management is currently an interesting topic in optoelectronic devices which is helpful for improving the device performance of thin ﬁlm solar cells. Up to now, many kinds of Si nanostructures, such as Si nanopillars, Si nanoholes, and Si nanocones, were fabricated to realize the broadband antireﬂection and light- harvesting properties. For example, Zhu fabricated Si nanocone structures and found that the absorption can be obviously enhanced to 94% (Zhu et al. 2010). Jin and Liu fabricated the mixed Si nanostructures with nanopores and nanopillars by means of deep ion-reactive etching (DRIE) process. In the visible wavelength range (300800 nm), the diffusion reﬂection can be as low as 2.2% (Jin and Liu 2012). Nanosphere lithography technique was also developed to prepare periodically nano- patterned Si structures containing the 2D nanocone-like arrays by using a monolayer of polystyrene (PS) nanosphere array as a mask (Lu et al. 2015). The preparation procedures can be described as follows: First of all, a monolayer of PS nanospheres was coated on the c-Si wafer by self-assembly technique. The diameters of the nanospheres were selected as 220 nm and 300 nm to form different periodicities. With the monolayer of nanospheres as a mask, the Si wafer was etched 864 Y. Cao and J. Xu in the conventional reactive ion etching (RIE) system. The ﬂow rate of CF4 gas was 30 sccm and the RF power was kept at 50 W during the etching process. After removing the remaining PS nanospheres in the tetrahydrofuran (THF) solution, the periodically nanopatterned Si structures were obtained. Figure 19a shows the AFM 3D image of formed 300 nm periodic Si nanostructures. The ordered and hexagonal- close-packed Si nanocone-shaped structures can be clearly identiﬁed in the scanning area (2 μm  2 μm), and the periodicity of the formed Si nanostructures is consistent with the size of nanospheres. Figure 19b is the reﬂection spectra of 300 nm periodic Si nanostructures together with the ﬂat Si substrate. By forming the periodic Si nanostructures, the good antireﬂection characteristics can be observed. According to the Fresnel theory, the reﬂection at the interface of two media is dominated by the difference between the refractive index. When it comes to the reﬂection of a textured surface, the effective refractive index is used as below: X k i¼1 f i n2 i  n2   n2 i þ 2n2   ¼ 0 (2) where n, fi, and ni is the effective refractive index, the ﬁlling factor, and the refractive index of the materials. The nanocone-shaped nanostructures can be considered as the mixed material of Si and air, and the gradually changing occupied area of Si from the top to the bottom of the cones is leading to a gradually changing refractive index. The reduced reﬂection in the broad wavelength range can be attributed to the formation of the gradually changing refractive index layer between air and Si. Moreover, since the size of the formed Si nanostructures in our case is about several hundred nanometers, which is comparable to the wavelength of the incident light, a strong light scattering occurs according to the wave optics. Consequently, the normal incident light changes its direction and the optical path in the absorption layer increases obviously. Fig. 19 (a) AFM 3D image of formed 300 nm periodic Si nanostructures; (b) the reﬂection spectra of the ﬂat Si substrate and the 300 nm periodic Si nanostructures (Lu et al. 2015) (Copyright 2015 Elsevier) 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 865 Subsequently, nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers were deposited on both the ﬂat and the nanopatterned Si substrates by using the methods mentioned before, to obtain hetero-junction solar cells (Xu et al. 2014). Figure 20a is the cross-sectional TEM image of nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers on ﬂat Si substrate, the well-deﬁned periodic structures can be identiﬁed, and the thickness is about 4 nm and 2.3 nm for nc-Si and SiO2 sublayers, respectively. From the high-resolution TEM image as shown in Fig. 20b, the crystallized nc-Si can be clearly seen, and the size is about 4 nm, which is in agreement with the thickness of amorphous Si sub-layer. Figure 20c shows the cross-sectional TEM image of nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers deposited on nanopatterned substrate. It is shown that the stacked structures are still kept on the nanopatterned substrates. The formation of nc-Si can be clearly identiﬁed in the high-resolution TEM as given in Fig. 20d. Figure 21 shows the EQE results of both solar cell devices. The signiﬁcant enhancement of EQE can clearly be demonstrated. It is found that the EQE is quite low for a ﬂat device in the measurement spectral range. However, the EQE of a nanopatterned device obviously increases in the whole spectral range (3001200 nm), which is consistent with the good antireﬂection result. The inset in Fig. 21 shows the current J-V characteristics measured under AM1.5 solar Fig. 20 (a) The cross-sectional TEM image of nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers on ﬂat Si substrate; (b) high- resolution TEM image of nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers; (c) cross-sectional TEM image of nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers deposited on nanopatterned substrate; (d) high-resolution TEM image of nc-Si in nanopatterned sample (Xu et al. 2014) (Copyright 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.) 866 Y. Cao and J. Xu spectrum. It is found that the Voc is almost the same for both cells, which is 487 mV (ﬂat cell) and 500 mV (nanopatterned cell), respectively. Meanwhile, the Jsc is improved for nanopatterned cell, which is in good agreement with the EQE results. It is found that the PCE is improved from 3.1% to 3.8% by forming nanopatterned structures. Enhanced Performance of nc-Si-Based Hetero-junction Solar Cells Fabricated on Si Nanowire Substrates It has been demonstrated that the nanopatterned light-trapping structures can signif- icantly harvest the incident light which may improve the nc-Si-based cell device performance. However, the low aspect-ratio of nanopatterned Si structures limits the further improvement of light harvesting. Moreover, the cell area is also limited by using the nanosphere lithography technique. Recently, metal-assisted chemical etch- ing method is used to achieve vertically aligned Si nanowire (Si NW) arrays, which is on a large area simple and low-cost process. Consequently, Si NWs-based radial p-n junction solar cells, such as crystalline Si NWs cells (Li et al. 2011), a-Si/Si NWs shell/core cells (Wang et al. 2013), and organic polymers/Si NWs hybrid cells (Syu et al. 2012), have been widely studied. In the design of such Si NWs-based solar cells, incident light-trapping within the vertically aligned Si NW arrays leads to higher absorption per unit thickness than ﬂat Si-based solar cells, which is more suitable for nc-Si-based cell because the absorption layer is usually very thin. 25 20 15 10 5 0-0.1 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 V (V) flat cell nano-patterned cell J (mA/cm2) Fig. 21 The EQE results of solar cells containing nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers on ﬂat and nanopatterned Si substrate. Inset is the illuminated J-V curves (Xu et al. 2014) (Copyright 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.) 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 867 Another important advantage is that vertically aligned Si NW arrays will enlarge the radial junction areas, due to the high aspect ratio, which is helpful for enhancing the carrier separation and collection efﬁciency to improve the device performance. The c-Si wafers were well cleaned and then immersed into the solution composed of hydroﬂuoric acid and silver nitrate mixtures for an anisotropic wet-chemical etching process at the room temperature. The etching time were 2, 5, and 8 min to get the Si NWs structures various aspect ratios. After the etching processes, the tree- like silver pattern wrapping the silicon samples was detached using a HNO3 solution. Finally, Si NW arrays were aligned vertically to the wafers. The present etching technique can be applied to large-area solar cells, even to 4-in. wafer. Subsequently, nc-Si/SiC multilayers were deposited on both ﬂat Si wafers and wafers with verti- cally aligned Si NW arrays to form hetero-junction solar cells. Figure 22ac shows the top-view SEM images of Si NWs. Oriented Si NW forests could be clearly seen. The cross-sectional images of the Si wafers with vertically aligned Si NW arrays are shown in Fig. 22df. It is observed that the length of Si NWs etched for 2, 5, and 8 min is about 300 nm, 700 nm, and 1.2 μm, respectively. Figure 22g shows the length (L) and the diameter (D) of an individual nanowire for all the nanostructures with different etching time. It is found that the length of Si NWs gradually increased with the etching time while the diameter is almost the same, which is about 50 nm (Cao et al. 2016). Figure 23a is the reﬂection spectra for ﬂat Si wafers and wafers with vertically aligned Si NW arrays. The reﬂectance of the ﬂat Si substrate is quite high in the whole measurement range (3001200 nm). The Si NW wafers show the signiﬁcant antireﬂection characteristics compared to the ﬂat one. As shown in Fig. 23a, the reﬂectance is gradually reduced with increasing the etching time in the measurement spectral range. As for 8 min etching sample, the reﬂectance is less than 5% in the wavelength range from 300 nm to 1000 nm. The antireﬂection and light trapping effect of Si NWs structures can helpful for light harvesting in nc-Si-based solar cell structures deposited on Si NW structures. The optical transmission (T) spectra and reﬂection (R) spectra were measured for nc-Si/SiC multilayers deposited on ﬂat Si wafer and wafers with vertically aligned Si NW arrays to get hetero-junction structures. The optical absorption A can be deduced by A = 1-R-T, and the mean absorption weighted by AM 1.5G solar spectrum in the wavelength range from 300 nm to 1200 nm can be estimated according to equation: Aw ¼ Ð λ2 λ1 F λ ð ÞA λ ð Þdλ Ð λ2 λ1 F λ ð Þdλ (3) where F(λ) and A(λ) is the ﬂux of incident light and absorption at the wavelength of λ. The different light harvest behaviors of the nc-Si-based solar cell structures can be identiﬁed with changing the etching time, as shown in Fig. 23b. The weighted mean absorption (Aw) for ﬂat cell is about 60.9%, which increases to 79.5% by forming the present vertically aligned Si NW arrays. By increasing the etching time to 8 min, the Aw can be further increased to 88.9%, which is enhanced by 46% compared with 868 Y. Cao and J. Xu the ﬂat cell. It can clearly be seen that these light-trapping properties of Si NWarrays can lead to the signiﬁcantly enhanced optical absorption in a wide spectral range (3001200 nm). It has been demonstrated that the strong scattering effect to the incident light can strongly prolong the optical path length when the light wavelength is compatible with the Si NW array periodicity and lead to the signiﬁcant light- trapping effect. Hu analyzed the effects of wire diameter, length, and ﬁlling ratio on the absorptance of NW arrays and found that NW arrays with moderate ﬁlling ratio have much lower reﬂectance compared to thin ﬁlms, especially in the high- frequency regime (Hu and Chen 2007). Yu carried out a comprehensive modeling Fig. 22 (ac) The top-view SEM images of Si NWs etched for 2, 5, and 8 min; (df) The cross- sectional SEM images of vertically aligned Si NW arrays etched for 2, 5, and 8 min; (g) The length (L) and the diameter (D) of an individual nanowire for all the nanostructures with different etching time (Cao et al. 2016) (Copyright 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.) 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 869 of the light in-coupling, propagation and absorption proﬁle within radial junction thin ﬁlm cells and found that the resonance mode absorption and antenna-like light in-coupling behavior in the radial junction cell cavity can lead to a unique absorption distribution in the absorber and wavelength-dependent light trapping effect (Yu et al. 2014). Figure 24 is the EQE spectra of cell device samples and compared with that of ﬂat one. It is observed that the EQE of ﬂat cell is lower than 60% in the whole spectral range of 3001200 nm. The EQE of nc-Si/Si NWs cell is strongly enhanced over a wide spectral range of 5001000 nm, due to the light trapping effect. Nevertheless, the EQE strongly depends on the length of Si NWs, which is determined by the etching time. When the etching time increases to 8 min, the EQE decreases obvi- ously almost in the whole spectral range, which can be attributed to the decrease in Fig. 23 (a) The reﬂection spectra for ﬂat Si wafers and wafers with vertically aligned Si NW arrays; (b) The Aw of nc-Si/Si NWs solar cell structures deposited on both the ﬂat and nanopatterned wafers (Cao et al. 2016) (Copyright 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.) 870 Y. Cao and J. Xu carrier collection efﬁciency caused by the enhancement of carrier recombination during the transport to electrodes, due to the increased transportation distance (Cao et al. 2016). Figure 25 shows the AM 1.5G illuminated J-V characteristics of nc-Si/Si NWs hetero-junction solar cells. The photovoltaic parameters of Jsc, Voc, FF, and PCE, calculated from the J-V results, are summarized in Table 2. The cell performance is Fig. 24 EQE results of nc-Si/ Si NWs solar cell structures with different etching time (Cao et al. 2016) (Copyright 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.) 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0 6 12 18 24 30 Voltage (V) Current Density (mA/cm2) Etching Time 0 (flat) Etching Time 2 min Etching Time 5 min Etching Time 8 min Fig. 25 AM 1.5G illuminated J-V relationships of nc-Si/Si NWs solar cell structures with different etching time (Copyright by the authors) Table 2 The summarized photovoltaic parameters of cell devices. Copyright by the authors Etching time (min) Voc (mV) Jsc (mA/cm2) FF (%) Efﬁciency (%) 0 (ﬂat) 500 24.02 43.2 5.19 2 525 28.89 62.9 9.54 5 556 29.13 70.1 11.35 8 495 23.71 58.4 6.85 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 871 improved for the nc-Si/Si NWs hetero-junction solar cells, compared to the ﬂat cell. nc-Si/Si NW cell with the etching time up to 5 min attained a Jsc of 29.1 mA/cm2, a Voc of 556 mV, a FF of 70.1%, and a PCE of 11.3%. Among these enhanced photovoltaic parameters, the increased Jsc is mainly due to the enhanced light absorption. Another signiﬁcant increase in the FF may be owing to two reasons. The ﬁrst one is the reduction of series resistance (Rs). It is known that contact resistance is inversely proportional to the area for carriers passing through. Si NW arrays will reduce Rs of solar cells, due to their high aspect ratio. For a single-diode model, the relation of the current density and the voltage is given in Eq. 4 J ¼ J0 exp q V  RsJ ð Þ nkBT    1   þ V  RsJ Rsh  Jp (4) where J0 is the saturation current density, Jp the photocurrent, Rs the series resis- tance, Rsh the shunt resistance, n the ideality factor, q the electron charge, kB the Boltzmann constant, and T the temperature. The Rs value extracted by a ﬁt to the illuminated J-V curve is 1.6 Ω of nc-Si/Si NWs cell with the etching time of 5 min, which is 10 Ω in the ﬂat cell. The other reason of increasing FF is the radial p-n junction conﬁguration can alleviate the negative impact of Si NWs surface defects. Moreover, it is expected that a-SiC layers will passivate Si NWs and suppress the defect recombination. As a result, nc-Si/Si NWs cell with the etching time of 5 min has a highest FF of 70.1%. The Rsh value is enhanced from 110 Ω to 290 Ω, which also indicates the improved p-i-n structure of the nc-Si/Si NWs cell. Consequently, the Voc is increased to 556 mV. Because of those improvements, the PCE of nc-Si/Si NWs cell is obviously enhanced. High Efficiency Solar Cell Containing Graded-Sized nc-Si/Si NWs Hetero-junction Structure Since the multilayers containing graded-sized nc-Si can help to obtain enhanced broadband spectral response and energy conversion efﬁciency, it is interesting to prepare radial junction cell containing graded-sized nc-Si/SiC multilayers with Si NWs substrates in order to further improve the photovoltaic properties of the nc-Si- based solar cells. The schematic diagrams of hetero-junction solar cells containing nc-Si/SiC multilayers on ﬂat Si substrates and Si NWs substrates are shown in Fig. 26 (Cao et al. 2015). Figure 27a is the EQE spectra of grade-sized nc-Si/SiC multilayers-based cell deposited on ﬂat Si substrate and Si NWs structures, respectively. It is shown that the EQE is further enhanced in a wide spectral range by using Si NWs structures owing to the light trapping effect discussed before. Figure 27b is the illuminated J-V curve of grade-sized nc-Si/Si NWs cell and ﬂat cell. The grade-sized nc-Si/Si NWs cell has a Voc of 549 mV, a Jsc of 31.73 mA/cm2, a ﬁll factor of 73.5%, and a PCE of 12.80%. The performance of device with Si NWs is generally better than that of the ﬂat one. Our results demonstrate that the graded-sized nc-Si/Si NWs cell devices prepared by 872 Y. Cao and J. Xu the present approach offer a simple and low-cost process to achieve broadband and high spectral response and in turn to improve the cell performances, especially the Jsc and PCE. It is worth noting that parameters of the present cells have not been optimized. Further device optimization such as substrate resistivity, front metalliza- tion, and back-surface ﬁeld will improve the photovoltaic properties. Conclusion It is expected that the broadband spectral absorption can be realized by forming the all Si-based tandem solar cells, whose power conversion efﬁciency can exceed the Shockley-Queisser limit. As a low-dimensional quantum material, the energy band structures of nc-Si can be well changed by controlling the dot size because of the quantum conﬁnement effect, which provides an effective approach to modulate the bandgap of nc-Si to match the broad solar spectrum efﬁciently. As a conse- quence, the study on nc-Si-based advanced high efﬁciency photovoltaic devices has attracted much attention in the recent years. The main topic of this chapter is to study the fabrication and device performance of nc-Si-based hetero-junction solar cells. First of all, a-Si-based multilayers with Fig. 26 The schematic diagram of hetero-junction solar cells containing nc-Si/SiC multilayers on ﬂat Si substrates and Si NWs substrates (Cao et al. 2015) (Copyright 2015 Royal Society of Chemistry) 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 873 various amorphous silicon thicknesses were deposited in PECVD system, and the nc-Si-based multilayers (nc-Si/SiO2 multilayers and nc-Si/SiC multilayers) were obtained after high temperature thermal annealing. The microstructures and optical properties were characterized. The prototype p-i-n structure solar cell devices containing size controllable nc-Si were fabricated and the photovoltaic properties were investigated. In order to further enhance the PCE of the solar cells, the nanosphere lithography technique and metal-assisted chemical etching technique were used to prepare the Si sub-wavelength nanostructures with good antireﬂection characteristic. Light harvesting and enhanced performance of nc-Si-based solar cells were achieved. Furthermore, a novel hetero-junction cell structure containing graded-sized nc-Si-based multilayers was proposed, which extended the spectral response range and improved the device performance. By combining the graded- sized nc-Si-based multilayers with light-trapping structure, the corresponding PCE of hetero-junction solar cell can be as high as 12.8%. It is worth noting that Fig. 27 (a) The EQE results of graded-sized nc-Si/c-Si and graded-sized nc-Si/Si NWs hetero-junction solar cells; (b) The illuminated J-V curves of graded-sized nc-Si/c-Si and graded-sized nc-Si/Si NWs cells (Cao et al. 2015) (Copyright 2015 Royal Society of Chemistry) 874 Y. Cao and J. Xu parameters of the present cells have not been optimized. Further device optimization such as substrate resistivity, front metallization, and back-surface ﬁeld will improve the photovoltaic properties. However, there is still a long way to achieve all Si-based tandem-type solar cells experimentally. More experimental researches in this area are required. For example, the high mobility of charge carriers and high conductivity are important and chal- lenging for the nc-Si-based solar cells based. To meet the requirements, the spacing between the nc-Si should be small enough so that the wave functions of the carriers can overlap with each other and the minibands can be formed for the transportation and collection of the carriers. At the same time, effective built-in electric ﬁeld is indispensable to the carrier separation in the nc-Si-based sub-cells. In the experi- ments, the boron (B) and phosphorus (P) doping is the usual and effective method to obtain the p-n junction. However, doping of the nc-Si is still a challenging topic and several fundamental problems need to be solved. First, whether the dopants can be incorporated into the nc-Si is still not clear. The self-puriﬁcation effect of nc-Si plays a critical role when the scale is only several nanometers, which means the nanocrystals tend to repel the impurities to the surface so that the formation energy can remain the lowest. So the doping efﬁciency of the nanocrystals is much lower than that of the bulk Si, and most of the dopants exist at the surface. Second, the location of the dopants inside the nanocrystals is still not fully understood. Recently, many theoretical and experimental reports are published, but unfortunately, the conclusions are often different or even opposite. The different locations of dopants are often inﬂuenced by the surface condition of nanocrystals (defects or Si dangling bonds) or the fabricating methods, and the problems need further studies. Third, the dopants can also change the crystalline structures of the nc-Si. For example, the doped P atoms can passivate the Si dangling bonds at the surface of nanocrystals and they can cause some damage to the Si structure and introduce extra defects when annealing temperature is over 1000 C. On the other hand, in this chapter, most of the nc-Si-based hetero-junction solar cells are all fabricated on c-Si substrates. The role of nc-Si in the solar cells is still not clear. Besides, in order to meet the low-cost demand to the development of third generation solar cells, it is an interesting question to study the photovoltaic proper- ties of all-nc-Si-based solar cells, which were fabricated on glass substrates. So far, as mentioned in this chapter, in order to get all-nc-Si-based solar cells, complex processes including high temperature annealing, self-aligned evaporating method, and chemical or reactive ion etching were used. As discussed in this chapter, the laser-induced crystallization technique can be used to crystallize a-Si layer to form nc-Si, which could avoid damaging the glass substrates during the high-temperature annealing process. It is worth noting that in order to further improve the photovoltaic properties of nc-Si-based solar cells, device optimization such as substrate resistivity, front met- allization, and back-surface ﬁeld will be taken into account. Moreover, surface passivation will help for reducing the density of defect states and improving the cell performance, especially for the device fabricated on high aspect ratio light trapping substrates. 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 875 Cross-References Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film References Y.Q. Cao, P. Lu, X.W. Zhang, Enhanced photovoltaic property by forming p-i-n structures containing Si quantum dots/SiC multilayers. Nanoscale Res. Lett. 9, 634 (2014) Y.Q. Cao, J. Xu, Z.Y. Ge, Enhanced broadband spectral response and energy conversion efﬁciency for hetero-junction solar cells with graded-sized Si quantum dots/SiC multilayers. J. Mater. Chem. C 3, 12061 (2015) Y.Q. Cao, Z.Y. Ge, X.F. Jiang, Light harvesting and enhanced performance of Si quantum dot/Si nanowire heterojunction solar cells. Part. Part. Syst. Charact. 33, 38 (2016) G.R. Chang, F. Ma, D.Y. Ma, Growth and characterization of ceria thin ﬁlms and Ce-doped γ-Al2O3 nanowires using sol-gel techniques. Nanotechnology 21, 465606 (2010) K.J. Chen, X.F. Huang, J. Xu, Visible photoluminescence in crystallized amorphous Si:H/SiNx:H multiquantum - well structures. Appl. Phys. Lett. 61, 2069 (1992) G.R. Chen, J. Xu, W. Xu, Dynamical process of KrF pulsed excimer laser crystallization of ultrathin amorphous silicon ﬁlms to form Si nano-dots. J. Appl. Phys. 111, 094320 (2012) Q.J. Cheng, E. Tam, S.Y. Xu, Si quantum dots embedded in an amorphous SiC matrix: nanophase control by non-equilibrium plasma hydrogenation. Nanoscale 2, 594 (2010) E.C. Cho, S. Park, X.J. Hao, Silicon quantum dot/crystalline silicon solar cells. Nanotechnology 19, 245201 (2008) G. Conibeer, M. Green, R. Corkish, Silicon nanostructures for third generation photovoltaic solar cells. Thin Solid Films 511, 654 (2006) M. Hirasawa, T. Orii, T. Seto, Size-dependent crystallization of Si nanoparticles. Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 093119 (2006) L. Hu, G. Chen, Analysis of optical absorption in silicon nanowire arrays for photovoltaic applications. Nano Lett. 7, 3249 (2007) C.W. Jiang, M.A. Green, Silicon quantum dot superlattices: Modeling of energy bands, densities of states, and mobilities for silicon tandem solar cell applications. J. Appl. Phys. 99, 114902 (2006) H. Jin, G.L. Liu, Fabrication and optical characterization of light trapping silicon nanopore and nanoscrew devices. Nanotechnology 23, 125202 (2012) Y. Kanemitsu, N. Shimizu, T. Komoda, Photoluminescent spectrum and dynamics of Si+-ion- implanted and thermally annealed SiO2 glasses. Phys. Rev. B 54, 14329 (1996) T.W. Kim, C.H. Cho, B.H. Kim, Quantum conﬁnement effect in crystalline silicon quantum dots in silicon nitride grown using SiH4 and NH3. Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 123102 (2006) Y. Kurokawa, S. Miyajima, A. Yamada, Preparation of nanocrystalline silicon in amorphous silicon carbide matrix. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 45, L1064 (2006) Y. Kurokawa, S. Tomita, S. Miyajima, Photoluminescence from silicon quantum dots in Si quantum dots/amorphous SiC superlattice. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 46, L833 (2007) Y. Kurokawa, S. Yamada, S. Miyajima, Effects of oxygen addition on electrical properties of silicon quantum dots/amorphous silicon carbide superlattice. Curr. Appl. Phys. 10, S435 (2010) L.X. Li, J. Heitmann, M. Schmidt, Si rings, Si clusters, and Si nanocrystals-different states of ultrathin SiOx layers. Appl. Phys. Lett. 81, 4248 (2002) H.F. Li, R. Jia, C. Chen, Inﬂuence of nanowires length on performance of crystalline silicon solar cell. Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 151116 (2011) 876 Y. Cao and J. Xu S.X. Li, Y.J. Rui, Y.Q. Cao, Annealing effect on optical and electronic properties of silicon rich amorphous silicon-carbide ﬁlms. Front. Optoelectron. 5(1), 107 (2012) P. Löper, D. Stüwe, M. Künle, A Membrane Device for Substrate - Free Photovoltaic Character- ization of Quantum Dot Based p -i - n Solar Cells. Adv. Mater. 24, 3124 (2012) P. Löper, M. Canino, D. Qazzazie, Silicon nanocrystals embedded in silicon carbide: investigation of charge carrier transport and recombination. Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 033507 (2013) P. Lu, J. Xu, Y.Q. Cao, Preparation of nano-patterned Si structures for hetero-junction solar cells. Appl. Surf. Sci. 334, 123 (2015) A. Martínez, S. Hernández, P. Pellegrino, Comparative study of the nonlinear optical properties of Si nanocrystals fabricated by e - beam evaporation, PECVD or LPCVD. Phys. Status Solidi C 8, 969 (2011) F. Meillaud, A. Shah, C. Droz, Efﬁciency limits for single-junction and tandem solar cells. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 90, 2952 (2006) S. Miyazaki, K. Makihara, M. Ikeda, Control of electronic charged states of Si-based quantum dots for ﬂoating gate application. Thin Solid Films 517, 41 (2008) Y.H. Pai, G.R. Lin, Spatially conﬁned synthesis of SiOx nano-rod with size-controlled Si quantum dots in nano-porous anodic aluminum oxide membrane. Opt. Express 19, 896 (2011) N.M. Park, C.J. Choi, T.Y. Seong, Quantum conﬁnement in amorphous silicon quantum dots embedded in silicon nitride. Phys. Rev. Lett. 86, 1355 (2001) S. Park, E.C. Cho, D.Y. Song, n-Type silicon quantum dots and p-type crystalline silicon heteroface solar cells. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 93, 684 (2009) L. Pavesi, L. Dal Negro, C. Mazzoleni, Optical gain in silicon nanocrystals. Nature 408, 440 (2000) I. Perez-Wurﬂ, L. Ma, D. Lin, Silicon nanocrystals in an oxide matrix for thin ﬁlm solar cells with 492 mV open circuit voltage. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 100, 65 (2012) G.G. Qin, S.Y. Ma, Z.C. Ma, Electroluminescence from amorphous SiSiO2 superlattices. Solid State Commun. 106, 329 (1998) Y.J. Rui, S.X. Li, J. Xu, Size-dependent electroluminescence from Si quantum dots embedded in amorphous SiC matrix. J. Appl. Phys. 110, 064322 (2011) W. Shockley, H.J. Queisser, Detailed Balance Limit of Efﬁciency of p - n Junction Solar Cells. J. Appl. Phys. 32, 510 (1961) H.J. Syu, S.C. Shiu, C.F. Lin, Silicon nanowire/organic hybrid solar cell with efﬁciency of 8.40%. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 98, 267 (2012) J. Tauc, R. Grigorovici, A. Vancu, Optical properties and electronic structure of amorphous germanium. Phys. Status Solidi 15, 627 (1966) H.P. Wang, T.Y. Lin, C.W. Hsu, Realizing High-Efﬁciency Omnidirectional n-Type Si Solar Cells via the Hierarchical Architecture Concept with Radial Junctions. ACS Nano 7, 9325 (2013) J. Xu, X. Li, Z. Cen, Formation of a dense nanocrystalline Si array on an insulating layer by laser irradiation of ultrathin amorphous Si ﬁlms. Scr. Mater. 53, 811 (2005) J. Xu, S.H. Sun, Y.Q. Cao, Light Trapping and Down - Shifting Effect of Periodically Nano- patterned Si - Quantum - Dot - Based Structures for Enhanced Photovoltaic Properties. Part. Part. Syst. Charact. 31, 459 (2014) S. Yamada, Y. Kurokawa, S. Miyajima, High open-circuit voltage oxygen-containing silicon quantum dots superlattice solar cells. Proceedings 35th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Confer- ence, (2010), 000766 S. Yamada, Y. Kurokawa, S. Miyajima, Improvement of electrical properties of silicon quantum dot superlattice solar cells with diffusion barrier layers. Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 52, 04CR02 (2013) L.W. Yu, S. Misra, J.Z. Wang, Understanding light harvesting in radial junction amorphous silicon thin ﬁlm solar cells. Sci. Rep. 4, 4357 (2014) M. Zacharias, J. Blasing, P. Veit, Thermal crystallization of amorphous Si/SiO2 superlattices. Appl. Phys. Lett. 74, 2614 (1999) 24 Nanocrystalline Silicon-Based Multilayers and Solar Cells 877 M. Zacharias, J. Heitmann, R. Scholz, Size-controlled highly luminescent silicon nanocrystals: A Si/SiO2 superlattice approach. Appl. Phys. Lett. 80, 661 (2002) P. Zhang, X.W. Zhang, J. Xu, Tunable nonlinear optical properties in nanocrystalline Si/SiO2 multilayers under femtosecond excitation. Nanoscale Res. Lett. 9, 28 (2014a) P. Zhang, X.W. Zhang, P. Lu, Interface state-related linear and nonlinear optical properties of nanocrystalline Si/SiO2 multilayers. Appl. Surf. Sci. 292, 262 (2014b) J. Zhu, C.M. Hsu, Z. Yu, Nanodome solar cells with efﬁcient light management and self-cleaning. Nano Lett. 10, 1979 (2010) 878 Y. Cao and J. Xu Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 25 Linwei Yu and Pere Roca i Cabarrocas Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 880 Polymorphous Silicon Thin Film for Solar Cells ............................................... 882 Silicon Nanowire for Solar Cells ................................................................ 888 Top-Down Etching Approach and Radial p-n Junction Solar Cells ........................ 889 Self-Assembly Approach and Radial p-i-n Junction Solar Cells ........................... 892 Conclusion ....................................................................................... 928 Cross-References ................................................................................ 928 References ....................................................................................... 929 Abstract Nanostructured silicon (Si) materials are exciting new building blocks for Si-based photovoltaics to achieve a stronger light trapping, absorption, and antireﬂection with the least material consumption. Constructed upon Si nano- wires (NWs), a novel 3D radial junction solar cell architecture decouples the optical absorption thickness from the electric distance that photocarriers need to travel to be collected. This allows a radical reduction of the absorber layer thickness that will beneﬁt a fast photo-carriers separation and extraction. In addition, the light incoupling and absorption distribution among the antenna- L. Yu (*) School of Electronics Science and Engineering/National Laboratory of Solid State Microstructures, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China Laboratoire de Physique des Interfaces et Couches Minces (LPICM), CNRS, Ecole Polytechnique, Palaiseau, France e-mail: yulinwei@nju.edu.cn; linwei.yu@polytechnique.edu P. Roca i Cabarrocas (*) Laboratoire de Physique des Interfaces et Couches Minces (LPICM), CNRS, Ecole Polytechnique, Palaiseau, France e-mail: pere.roca@polytechnique.edu  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_32 879 like radial junction units can be largely enhanced by the resonant modes in the nanostructured photonic cavities, which necessitates a set of new theoretical models and high-precision simulation capabilities to address and predict the photovoltaic performance of the radial junction units, as a key basis for seeking optimal structural design. Recent progress in radial junction solar cells has accomplished a device performance comparable or even superior to their planar counterparts, with still plenty of room for further improvement. This chapter starts with a presentation of hydrogenated polymorphous silicon, a nanostruc- tured material with enhanced optoelectronic properties with respect to hydroge- nated amorphous silicon, and then continues with a review on the major fabrication strategies, growth theories, and key technologies involved in devel- oping a new generation of high performance and low cost Si solar cells, with a particular focus on the radial junction thin ﬁlm solar cells fabricated upon SiNWs grown via a plasma-assisted low temperature vapor-liquid-solid procedure. Crit- ical issues, such as the geometry, density, and doping control in Si nanowires and the radial junction deposition and optimization, will be addressed in a systematical but concise way. Keywords Nanostructured silicon  Radial junction solar cells  Silicon nanowires  Photovoltaics Introduction Silicon nanowires (SiNWs) are quasi-one-dimensional (1D) crystalline nano- structures that feature a high aspect-ratio geometry with a diameter in the range from several to hundreds nanometers. Vertical SiNWs usually demonstrate a very efﬁcient light trapping and antireﬂection effect and thus can achieve a light absorp- tion much stronger than that in the same thin ﬁlm material of equal volume. As illustrated in Fig. 1, three different mechanisms could be responsible for the out- standing light harvesting performance. (i) First, in a geometrical scattering model as depicted Fig. 1a, light trapping is achieved by scattering of incident light among the NWs forest and thus being closely related to the density and arrangement of the SiNWs structure (Street et al. 2008, 2009); (ii) second, the quasi-1D NWs could by themselves play a role of antenna, as illustrated in Fig. 1b, where the NWs with a given diameter can capture a speciﬁc range of incident light at resonant wavelengths, as recently witnessed in individual SiNWs (Brönstrup et al. 2010; Cao et al. 2010). Furthermore, the air/SiNW/submultilayer interface, especially for the NWs with a tapering diameter or in a shape of nanocones as represented in Fig. 1c, is known to form a gradient index change interface that contributes to the omni-direction and broad spectrum light trapping or in-coupling (Huang et al. 2007a; Zhu et al. 2008). While all these mechanisms are beneﬁcial for maximizing the light absorption for photovoltaics, the optimal strategy with respect for a speciﬁc light trapping mech- anism can be different. Compared to the common solar cells in planar conﬁgurations, 880 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas as addressed with great details in Chaps. 2, Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods, 20, Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film, and so on, there are many new geometric factors, dimensions of control and even unprecedented opportunities to discover in the structural design of Si NW arrays for optimal light harvesting for solar cells, as will be addressed in following sections. Thanks to a strong light trapping effect among the 3D SiNW framework, the absorptive material consumption can be greatly reduced. This can help to achieve a very economic use of the high quality light absorbing materials, which is one of major concerns in the ﬁeld of photovoltaics as explained in Chaps. 7, Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method, and 22, Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film. On the other hand, in conventional planar photo diode structures, the photocarrier collection distance in the junction is more or less the same as the optical absorber layer thickness. This means that if the absorber layer thickness is designed to be very thick, in pursuit of a maximal light absorption, the photocarriers generated in the absorber layer have to travel, on average, a very long distance to be collected by the electrodes at the p-n junction boundaries, leading to an inefﬁcient carrier collection, increased recombination, and as a consequence a decreased open circuit voltage Voc. This becomes particularly unacceptable in p-i-n thin ﬁlm solar cells, where a high electric built-in ﬁeld in the intrinsic i-layer (inversely proportional to the i-layer thickness) is necessary and crucial to achieve a rapid photocarrier separation in the amorphous intrinsic absorber. Fortunately, this dilemma, in seeking simultaneously an electrically short photocarrier collection distance and an optically long absorption distance/path in the same junction, can be resolved in a nanostructured radial p-i-n or p-n junction conﬁguration built upon the Si NWs or nano pillars (NPs), where the concepts of the electric junction layer thickness and the optical absorption distance can be completely decoupled. The strong light trapping effect realized among the 3D Si NWs or NPs can well compensate the reduced junction layer thickness, and thus leaving plenty of room for the structural optimization of the diode junction for efﬁcient photo-carrier collection in both p-n and p-i-n solar cell conﬁgurations. Fig. 1 Illustrations for the different light trapping mechanisms that could contribute to an enhanced anti-reﬂection and light trapping effects realized among SiNW arrays (Copyright by the authors) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 881 Polymorphous Silicon Thin Film for Solar Cells In the previous chapter, standard hydrogenated silicon thin ﬁlms (amorphous and microcrystalline) produced by plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) have been presented and their growth processes discussed, see the three chapters in Thin Film Silicon part a PECVD is a versatile technique which allows producing a wide range of materials for large area electronics. In the ﬁeld of a-Si:H and μc-Si:H deposition, the standard model is based on the use of SiH3 radicals which are supposed to be the main ﬁlm precursor as they are often found to be the most abundant species in the plasma. As a matter of fact, the growth of μc-Si:H by the sole combination of SiHx radicals and atomic hydrogen has been discussed in (Roca i Cabarrocas 2011). However, industrial applications require high deposition rate, which is synonymous of forming clusters, aggregates and even powder in the reactor. Thus, tuning the process conditions for high deposition rates leads to a rich and complex plasma chemistry, which also opens the way to faster deposition rates and the obtaining of nanostructured materials (Roca i Cabarrocas et al. 2007). Besides radicals and clusters, ions also play an important role on the growth of thin ﬁlms by giving energy to the growth surface. Indeed ion bombardment has been shown to have beneﬁcial or detrimental effects depending on ion energy, with a threshold of 2050 eV for defect creation, depending on the growth rate. Figure 2 illustrates the rich chemistry involved in PECVD deposition of silicon thin ﬁlms from silane hydrogen mixtures. While the importance of ions and radicals has been widely discussed, much less is known on the role of electrons, photons, and clusters. Figure 3 shows an example of the wide range of silicon structures and thin ﬁlms that can be produced when one process parameter, in this case the total pressure, is increased while keeping the other process conditions constant (3% silane in hydro- gen, 22 W and 250 C). At relatively low pressure (less than 1 Torr in this case), gas phase reactions are avoided and the main ﬁlm precursors are silicon radicals and atomic hydrogen. These species react on the substrate to form a μc-Si:H thin ﬁlm as shown in the TEM cross section in the inset. As pressure is increased, gas phase reactions take place and lead to the formation of silicon clusters and nanocrystals. These nanoparticles will contribute to deposition provided they are not negatively charged. Indeed, only neutral or positively charged species can overcome the sheath potential and contribute to deposition. More interestingly, in the case of positively charged clusters, they will be accelerated by the plasma potential (of the order of 50100 Volts) and thus will reach the surface with energies of the order of 1 eV/atom, which have been shown to be sufﬁcient to melt the clusters at the moment of the impact (Chaabane et al. 2006). Further increase in pressure will lead to the increase of the cluster density up to some critical concentration (10101011 cm3) above which agglomeration will take place. These agglomerates can grow to larger sizes and lead to formation of powder or eventually escape before getting negatively charged and contribute to the growth. These changes in the composition of the plasma species will reﬂect in the electrical parameters of the discharge as electrons will tend to get trapped by the clusters and powders leading to a decrease in the plasma density, an 882 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas Fig. 2 Schematic representation of a capacitively coupled PECVD reactor. A broad variety of thin ﬁlms can be deposited depending on the gases feed into the reactor. Moreover, by varying the process conditions (pressure, RF power, substrate temperature, gas mixture, and interelectrode distance) ﬁlm precursors can change from radicals, to ions and even clusters and nanocrystals (Copyright by the authors) Fig. 3 Deposition rate as a function of pressure for a 3% silane in hydrogen mixture at 250 C under an RF power of 22 W. As pressure increases the plasma changes from a regime where only silicon radicals and atomic hydrogen contribute to deposition to a regime were silicon nano- crystals contribute to growth, still in the α regime. Then the deposition rate increases sharply, which corresponds to the regime where nanocrystals form larger agglomerates (10 nm). With further increase in pressure, the agglomerates become too large and are conﬁned in the plasma, which results in the formation of powders and a decrease in the deposition rate (Copyright by the authors) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 883 increase in the electron temperature (to sustain ionization), and overall a transition from a capacitive regime of the discharge (α regime) towards a more inductive regime (also referred to as γ0). Dusty or complex plasmas have attracted increasing interest in recent years and are the basis of a new discipline. Here the focus is on the ﬁlms obtained under conditions where silicon clusters and nanocrystals contribute to the growth leading to a nanostructured material that is named hydrogenated polymorphous silicon (Longeaud et al. 1999). The main characteristic of this nanostructured material is the use of plasma born silicon nanocrystals as building blocks for the ﬁlm growth. Of course only positively charged and neutral ones can contribute to the growth, and it has been shown that their contribution may be as high as 75% of the ﬁlm (Hamers et al. 2000) with a strong effect of the impact energy, a parameter which can be used to control their landing and switch from fully crystallized to fully amorphous thin ﬁlms. Figure 4 shows a planar and cross section view of pm-Si:H thin ﬁlms. The planar view was obtained by depositing a 10 nm thin pm-Si:H ﬁlm on NaCl and transferring it later on a Cu grid for high resolution TEM character- ization. In this case, one can see larger nanocrystals (34 nm in diameter) while the rest of the matrix seems amorphous. However, the analysis of the disordered matrix shows that it has a medium range order, as revealed by the autocorrelation function shown in the inset. It is possible that such medium range order results from the particular growth conditions where small nanocrystals partly of completely melt upon impact on the substrate. However, the obtained thin ﬁlm keeps some memory of its growth process, completely different from standard a-Si:H deposition from radicals, in which case medium range order is absent. Figure 4b shows a cross section of a pm-Si:H ﬁlm deposited on a glass substrate. Again, one can see that silicon nanocrystals are embedded in the amorphous matrix (as revealed by the electron diffraction pattern). This is very different from the case of microcrystalline silicon ﬁlms deposited at low pressure (see Fig. 4 (a) High resolution TEM planar view of a 10 nm thin pm-Si:H thin ﬁlm where large silicon nanocrystals can be clearly seen. The autocorrelation function of the disordered matrix shows that it has a medium range order. (b) Shows a cross section of a 300 nm thick ﬁlm deposited on Corning glass where a rather uniform distribution of silicon nanocrystals is demonstrated (Kim et al. 2017) (Copyright 2017 Nature Publishing Group) 884 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas Fig. 3), in which case the crystalline fraction tends to increase as the ﬁlm thickness increases, usually leading to a cone shaped growth. Thus, while in some respect pm-Si:H can be considered as the incubation phase of nanocrystalline silicon (also known as protocrystalline silicon), the fact that the growth process relies on silicon nanocrystals produced in the gas phase allows us to obtain ﬁlms where the fraction of nanocrystals is independent of the ﬁlm thickness. Compared to nano- and microcrystalline silicon thin ﬁlms, the crystalline fraction in pm-Si:H is rather low ( 10%). Thus, the transport properties of the material are most likely controlled by the amorphous phase with medium range order. However, the presence of nanocrystals in the amorphous matrix may lead to quantum conﬁnement effects and indeed pm-Si:H ﬁlms show luminescence in the red. Moreover, electroluminescent PIN diodes have been demonstrated in the case of pm-SiC:H layers where the disordered matrix is made of a wide gap (2 eV) a-SiC:H alloy (Wang et al. 2012). However, one could suspect that the use of pm-Si:H ﬁlms as the absorber layer in PIN solar cells may lead to poor transport properties as photo generated carriers could be trapped in the silicon nanocrystals and recombine there, thus deteriorating the transport properties and the solar cell efﬁciency. Interestingly, extensive transport measurements have shown that the electronic properties of pm-Si:H are far better than these of standard a-Si:H ﬁlms. In particular, the defect density at the Fermi level determined using both capaci- tance measurements on Schottky barriers and space-charge-limited current mea- surements on n+/i/n+ structures have demonstrated defect densities as low as 7  1014 cm3 eV1 (Kleider et al. 1999). Moreover, time of ﬂight measurements have revealed that the drift mobility of holes in pm-Si:H ﬁlms is the highest among a-Si:H type materials (Schiff 2006). Of course, having excellent transport properties in the as-deposited and annealed states is necessary for high efﬁciency solar cells; however, the stability of the properties against prolonged light soaking is even more important. Indeed, a-Si:H thin ﬁlms are known to suffer from light-induced degradation, which results in a decrease of cell efﬁciency. Figure 5 shows the mobility lifetime product deduced from steady-state photo grating measurements on a series of silicon thin ﬁlms in the as-deposited and light-soaked states. The same parameter for standard a-Si:H ﬁlms is shown on the left hand side (low pressure). One can see that as pressure is increased and thus process conditions move towards polymorphous silicon deposition (see Fig. 3), there is an improvement in the μτ product of holes and most importantly, this value is stable in the pm-Si:H deposition régime. The excellent transport properties in the as-deposited and light-soaked states have motivated a strong research effort to implement this material as the absorber layer in PIN solar cells. The solar cells are usually deposited on a glass substrate coated with a textured tin-oxide layer doped with ﬂuorine (SnO2:F) or on textured Al doped ZnO (ZnO:Al). The roughness of the SnO2:F (in the micron range) is standard in silicon thin ﬁlm solar cells and allows to enhanced light absorption in the active layer of the devices. These substrates are loaded on the PECVD reactor for the successive deposition of a P-type a-SiC:H layer, then the intrinsic (I) pm-Si:H absorber, and ﬁnally a N-type a-Si:H layer. The structure is completed by the back contact which is 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 885 usually made of Al or Ag. The optimization of the deposition conditions and cell structure has allowed to reach initial conversion efﬁciencies in the range of 910%. Moreover, the same layer stack on 10  10 cm2 substrates has been used to process thin ﬁlm modules as shown in Fig. 6, where the I(V) characteristics of two mini- modules having the same doped layers and different intrinsic absorber layers are compared. One can see that the use of pm-Si:H results in an improved conversion efﬁciency despite the increase of deposition rate by a factor of 6 compared to the standard a-Si:H module deposited at 1.5 A/s. While the properties of pm-Si:H ﬁlms are outstanding, the efﬁciency of the solar cells is limited to 10% and they suffer from light induced degradation. Further studies to optimize the solar cells involve both experimental studies and electro- optical modeling using ASDMP program (Abolmasov et al. 2016). These studies have shown the importance of using a substrate (NIP) rather than the standard superstrate (PIN) layout. Indeed, in the case of PIN solar cells on glass/SnO2:F, the p-type a-SiC:H layer is exposed to the bombardment by ions and charged silicon nanocrystals which induce defects in the p-layer and P/I interface. Detailed modeling of the solar cell J(V) characteristics and spectral response have revealed a strong interface defect density in this case, which is not present when the deposition is performed in the NIP order. Moreover, experimental studies of the kinetics of light- induced defects on the PIN and NIP solar cells and their stability have shown a much stronger resistance of the substrate type (NIP) pm-Si:H solar cells to light soaking. This is illustrated in Fig. 7 where the efﬁciency is plotted as a function of the light- soaking time for standard a-Si:H and pm-Si:H PIN solar cells (superstrate) compared to the efﬁciency of a pm-Si:H NIP (substrate) solar cell. One can see that indeed the NIP pm-Si:H cell has a higher efﬁciency and stability compared to a-Si:H one. Moreover, the same pm-Si:H absorber layer in the substrate conﬁguration leads to as stronger degradation than the a-Si:H cell, and its efﬁciency does not recover with an annealing after light soaking. This is interpreted as an irreversible damage induced by the strong ion bombardment by charged nanocrystals on the P-type a-SiC:H layer. 0 500 1000 1500 2000 108 109 powders pm-Si:H μc-Si:H a-Si:H As dep. Light-soaked μτ holes (cm2V1) Pressure (mTorr) Fig. 5 Mobility lifetime product for holes in the as-deposited and light-soaked states for a series of silicon thin ﬁlms deposited as a function of the total pressure. The values for standard a-Si:H ﬁlms deposited at low pressure are also shown as a reference (Longeaud et al. 1999) (Copyright 1999 Materials Research Society) 886 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas This leads to further optimization of the solar cells by incorporating μc-SiOx materials for the P and N layers. Indeed, besides their higher conductivity, these materials also beneﬁt from a lower refractive index which help to increase coupling of the light into the absorber layer. As a matter of fact, modeling, combined with experimental studies, has shown that it should be possible to reach stabilized 0 0,00 0,02 0,04 0,06 0,08 0,10 9A/s 1.5A/s 0,12 1 2 3 4 V(V) V(Volts) I (Amps) 5 6 7 8 Fig. 6 I(V) characteristics of a pm-Si:H module compared to a standard a-Si:H deposited at 1.5 A/s. The pm-Si:H deposition conditions allow to increase both the deposition rate and module output power (Copyright 1999 Materials Research Society) Fig. 7 Stability of the PIN versus NIP thin ﬁlm solar cells (Abolmasov et al. 2016) (Copyright by the authors under the Creative Commons) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 887 efﬁciencies up to 12% by using these pm-Si:H materials. This is illustrated in Table 1 where the current experimental status for NIP solar cells (corresponding to Fig. 7) in their as-deposited and light-soaked states are shown. These results show that nanostructured materials such as pm-Si:H have the potential for 12% stabilized efﬁciency thin ﬁlm solar cells. However, todays PV market is dominated by c-Si and polycrystalline silicon solar cells. To compete in this aggressive market, higher efﬁciencies are therefore necessary. Modeling has shown that triple and quadruple thin ﬁlm solar cells based on a-Si:H technology have the potential for 20% efﬁciency (Isabella et al. 2014) even on ﬂexible substrates. However, using the standard approach may not be sufﬁcient because of the limited transport properties of silicon thin ﬁlms and alloys. Thus, an approach where a high light absorption and easier collection of photo-generated carries can be achieved may be an asset in this competitive ﬁeld. Radial junction solar cells discussed below could be the winning approach. Silicon Nanowire for Solar Cells In order to fabricate Si NWs or NPs, there are many different approaches that include molecular beam epitaxy (Kanungo et al. 2008), vaporliquidsolid (VLS) growth (Wagner and Ellis 1964) in chemical vapor deposition (CVD) or plasma-enhanced CVD (PECVD) systems and various lithography or template etching techniques (Chen and Ahmed 1993) combined with reactive ion etching (RIE) (Garnett and Yang 2010), wet chemical etching (Huang et al. 2007b; Choi et al. 2008), etc. A nice review on the SiNW fabrication techniques is already available in the literature (Schmidt et al. 2010). In general, these fabrication techniques can be classiﬁed into two major strategies: (i) the top-down etching approach that carves into crystalline bulk Si (c-Si) wafer with the aid of lithography or nanotemplates, or (ii) the bottom- up self-assembly approach that grows NWs out of molten catalyst droplets with gaseous precursors as feedstock. Table 1 Solar cell output of pm-Si:H solar cells, deposited NIP (superstrate structure), but with the light entering on the P-side. In the first line of the table, the pm-Si:H layer is deposited at 175 C and in the rest of the table at 210 C. The subsequent lines show the effect of different window layers and back contacts in the initial and light-stabilized states. The ZnO/P-c-SiOx surface band bending is taken = 0.2 eV. The last two rows show the effect of using MgF2 antireflection coating on ZnO. Thickness of the pm-Si:H layer is 250 nm except for the last case where it is 150 nm Cell type Status Jsc (mA cm2) Voc (volts) FF Efﬁciency (%) ZnO/P-μc-Si/P-a-SiC/I-pm-Si:H (175 C)/N-a-Si:H/ZnO/Ag/glass Initial 13.31 0.985 0.792 10.39 Stabilized 13.22 0.980 0.744 9.63 MgF2/ ZnO/P-μc-SiOx/ I-pm-Si:H/ N-μc-SiOx/ ZnO/Ag/glass Initial 16.64 1.125 0,759 14.20 Stabilized 16.49 1.059 0.686 11.98 MgF2/ ZnO/P-μc-SiOx/ I-pm-Si:H/ N-μc-SiOx/ ZnO/Ag/glass Initial 15.98 1.129 0.764 13.78 Stabilized 15.92 1.080 0.714 12.27 888 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas Top-Down Etching Approach and Radial p-n Junction Solar Cells Silicon Nanowires Etching Formation In a top-down fabrication procedure, Si NWs are formed by etching into mono or poly crystalline Si substrates and thus inherit a high lattice quality and precise doping control from the standard c-Si wafer technology. Etching can be accomplished via RIE (Garnett and Yang 2010) or wet chemical solution process (Huang et al. 2007b; Choi et al. 2008), where the diameter, density, and spatial arrangement of the NWs are precisely controlled by photo or electron beam lithography patterns, or taking mono-layer nanospheres or nano-imprint lithography as template. In contrast to the expensive and low-throughput lithography techniques, the nanosphere assembly of polystyrene (PS) or silica (SiO2) can be easily spin-coated or dip-coated over Si wafer to serve a periodic etching mask. For example, a uniform silica nanosphere mono-layer has been successfully assembled over an entire 4 inch. wafer, via a LangmuirBlodgett (LB) method (Hsu et al. 2008), and translated by subsequent RIE etching to regular Si nano pillars or cones. Large area (10 cm2) periodic NW arrays have been fabricated by deep reactive ion etching (DRIE) using SF6 (Garnett and Yang 2010), as seen in the titled-view SEM image in Fig. 8b, through the mask provided by a uniform dip coating of silica bead in a procedure as depicted in Fig. 8a. In addition, a metal assisted chemical etching (MACE) technique has been developed to etch into c-Si wafer, with the aid of silver (Ag) nanoparticles in an aqueous HF solution containing oxidizing agents (for instance H2O2) (Huang et al. 2007b; Choi et al. 2008; Rey et al. 2015). The Ag particles catalyze a rapid oxidation of Si at the Ag/Si contact interface and dig into the underlying Si wafer when the newly formed oxide layer is continuously removed by HF solution. In this way, very high aspect-ratio (30:1) vertical Si NW arrays can be easily prepared upon the c-Si substrate, with a tunable diameter ranging from tens to hundreds of nanometers. Remarkably, the density or the arrangement of the MACE Si NWs can be further controlled by using self-assembly nanosphere monolayer as template (Huang et al. 2007b; Rey et al. 2015). At the end of the top-down MACE etching, the remnant Ag nanoparticles have to be completely removed by HNO3 solutions to avoid metal contamination and extra recombination centers. The light harvesting performance of periodic Si nanowire or pillar structures can be well simulated and optimized via proper structural design. Foldyna et al. theo- retically calculated the short circuit current density (Jsc) for c-Si NW arrays as a function of the NW length, type of packing and pitch (Foldyna et al. 2013). The amount of light absorbed in the SiNW arrays is calculated using 3D rigorous coupled-wave analysis and then the absorptance is transformed into Jsc using standard AM 1.5G solar spectrum under the assumption of a 100% internal quantum efﬁciency, i.e., every absorbed photon leads to carrier generation and successful collection. Two types of SiNW organization, namely, a square periodic grid and a densely packed hexagonal periodic grid, were considered (see Fig. 9a). The variation of Jsc as a function of diameter and pitch is shown in Fig. 9b for 3 μm long SiNW arrays. Interestingly, Jsc for the optimal combination of NW diameter and pitch is independent of the array organization, as shown in Fig. 9c where the maximum value 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 889 of Jsc is plotted as a function of NW length for both square and hexagonal organi- zations. Moreover, it has been shown that the performance of NW arrays can be further improved by a combination of NWs with two different diameters in a compact periodic arrangement. As an example, Fig. 9d shows Jsc as a function of two NW diameters with distinct maxima placed off the diagonal representing the single diameter NW array. The results support the experimental observation that random NW arrays, with a wide distribution of diameters, lead to a lower total reﬂectance than uniform arrays. Radial p-n Junction Solar Cells Upon the Si NWs or NPs, radial p-n junctions can be formed by either conventional thermal diffusion of dopant atoms (Garnett et al. 2009) or by depositing wide bandgap intrinsic and doped a-Si:H thin ﬁlms to accomplish a radial heterojunction HIT solar cell structure (Gharghi et al. 2012). Radial p-n junction SiNW solar cells, fabricated upon periodic SiNWs deﬁned by parallel electron beam lithography, with a diameter, height and pitch of 340 nm, 3.5 μm and 800 nm, respectively, demon- strated a power conversion efﬁciency of 10.8% with a relatively low Voc of 0.59 V (Lu and Lal 2010). With the introduction of a better interface passivation in a radial heterojunction conﬁguration, where 12 nm thick hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H) thin ﬁlm is coated upon crystalline silicon microwires, the radial HIT microwire solar cells deliver a photocurrent of 30 mA/cm2 and a voltage close to 600 mV that leads to an efﬁciency in excess of 12% (Gharghi et al. 2012). It is important to note that the 3D nanostructuring approach also enables an economic use of the high quality c-Si absorber materials, where the required wafer thickness can be Dipcoat n-type silicon in silica bead solution Deep reactive ion etch (DRIE) to form nanowires Remove beads in HF and diffusion dope to form radial p-n junction a b Fig. 8 (a) Schematic illustration of a silica nanosphere assembly via dip-coating and subsequent deep reactive ion etching, (b) tilted cross-sectional scanning electron microscope (SEM) image of the vertical SiNW array (Figure adapted with permission from (Garnett and Yang 2010). Copyright 2010 American Chemical Society) 890 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas reduced from typically 180 um (see Chaps. 6, Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Czochralski Si, 9, Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method, and 10, Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Noncontact Crucible Method) to less than 40 um for achieving the same light harvesting performance. However, despite an obvious gain in light harvesting and antireﬂection effect, the power conversion efﬁciencies of the radial p-n junction solar cells, fabricated over top-down etched Si NWs, are in general far below what has been achieved in conventional planar cells (now 26% in laboratory). The reasons behind can be manifold, for example, the damage by energetic ions during RIE etching, the inhomogeneous doping and junction proﬁle formed over a deep NW framework, and the extra electric contact loss among the rough 3D surface, etc. Particularly, a major challenge arises from the fact that as a consequence of the top-down etching to form Si NWs, the front interface area is also largely increased, which inevitably leads 30 Nanowire diameter (nm) 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 200 400 600 Jsc (mA/cm2) Jsc (mA/cm2) Pitch (nm) 25 20 15 10 25 20 15 10 5 600 400 200 First diameter (nm) Second diameter (nm) 0 0 20 25 30 35 Square arrays Hexagonal arrays Maximum value of Jsc for a given nanowire length 2 4 6 Nanowire length (μm) Max (Jsc) (mA/cm2) 8 10 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 a b d c Fig. 9 (a) Square periodic grid and densely packed hexagonal periodic grid for c-SiNW arrays on silver mirror. (b) Short circuit current density as a function of diameter and pitch for 3 μm long SiNWs, arranged in square array. (c) Maximum value of Jsc as a function of NW length. The maximum is calculated for diameters and pitches below 700 nm. The device performance is found to be independent of the organization. (d) Jsc as a function of two SiNW diameters with length and pitch of 3 μm and 600 nm, respectively (Figure adapted with permission from (Foldyna et al. 2013). Copyright 2012 Elsevier) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 891 to a much higher surface recombination speed, an enhanced photocarrier recombi- nation, and thus a degraded voltage output. Therefore, seeking an efﬁcient surface and interface passivation technique has been crucial in order to unleash the full potential of the Si NWs-based solar cells. Interestingly, it has been proven, both theoretically and experimentally, that making a periodic NP array is not always necessary or advantageous in view of maximal light absorption (Battaglia et al. 2012). Contrary to common belief, intro- ducing somewhat spatial randomness among the Si NW array can even help to boost the overall light harvesting over a broader wavelength spectrum. This also implies that the high processing cost, associated to precise location control and template preparation, can be largely relieved in radial junction solar cell fabrication. While a sufﬁcient light harvesting can be easily guaranteed among the top-down etched Si NWs, more research attention is now directed to achieve a high quality junction formation and address the key electrical aspects, so as to minimize photo-carrier recombination and boost the overall light conversion performance. Self-Assembly Approach and Radial p-i-n Junction Solar Cells In complement to the mainstream bulk Si wafer solar cells, hydrogenated amorphous Si (a-Si:H) thin ﬁlm deposition also enables a promising low-cost and ﬂexible solar cell technology, which can be manufactured in an automated and continuous pro- duction process and deposited at low temperature on bendable substrates for large scale deployment. According to the classiﬁcation in Fig. 10a, the a-Si:H thin ﬁlm solar cells belong to the 2nd generation (Gen) Si photovoltaics, which boast a low fabrication cost but also suffer from a lower power conversion efﬁciency (PCE) in comparison to the 1st Gen bulk Si solar cells. This is because the a-Si:H thin ﬁlm, though passivated by hydrogen, is still disordered and defective with a bulk defect density of 1016 cm3. As a consequence, the photo-carrier lifetime and diffusion length are very short, compared to those in high quality bulk c-Si. So, in order to facilitate carrier separation and minimize photocarrier recombination, the absorber intrinsic i-layer has to be sandwiched in a p-i-n junction structure, where the sweeping built-in ﬁeld can help to separate the photo-generated electrons and holes rapidly. However, a dilemma exists that the i-layer is supposed to be optically thick for sufﬁcient light absorption while being electrically thin to allow a fast extraction of photocarriers from the defective a-Si:H absorber layer. In a planar thin ﬁlm solar cell, these are opposite requirements as both of them are deﬁned by the i-layer thickness. Thus, a trade-off has to be sought and usually the planar i-layer thickness is controlled to be around 260 nm to 300 nm, leaving little room for further structural optimization of the planar a-Si:H thin ﬁlm solar cells. A new approach to break this fundamental limitation has become possible with the introduction of Si NWs as 3D framework, as illustrated in Fig. 10b, where the 3rd generation Si thin ﬁlm solar cells can now be deposited radially over the doped Si NW cores, which are grown via a vapor-liquid-solid (VLS) mechanism (Wagner and Ellis 1964) in a low temperature thin ﬁlm process. This preserves the low cost 892 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas advantage of the 2nd Gen solar cells, while holding a promise to boost the PCE performance of Si thin ﬁlm cells further to match or even surpass that of the 1st Gen c-Si cells. In this radial p-i-n junction conﬁguration, the equivalent optical path for the incident light is strongly enhanced by a factor of ten to thousands, depending on the speciﬁc wavelength, thanks to the strongly enhanced light trapping and absorp- tion realized among the SiNW array, while the electric travel distance for the photo- carriers can be greatly reduced by adopting a thinner absorber i-layer to allow for effective carrier separation and collection. More theoretical and experimental details, as well the latest progress, will be addressed in the rest of this Chapter, where the key fabrication techniques and design principles of the radial junction Si thin ﬁlm solar cells will be reviewed. This will involve the key fundamental and technical aspects in the VLS growth of Si NW, and the design principles, fabrication techniques, characterizations and performances, as well as theoretical simulation and modeling of the radial p-i-n junction solar cells. VLS Growth of Silicon Nanowires in a CVD System Targeting at a high performance but low cost photovoltaic applications, the Si NWs matrix should be manufactured via a low-cost, scalable, and reliable technology that provides efﬁcient and versatile control over the geometry, density, doping, and surface passivation of the NWs. In view of industrial production, the fabrication procedure is also supposed to be compatible with the established thin ﬁlm or wafer solar cell technologies. To this end, self-assembly growth of SiNWs via a vapor- liquid-solid (VLS) mechanism provides a good choice. During a typical VLS growth process in a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) system, as schematically illustrated in Fig. 11, metal catalyst droplets (for example the widely used Au, as well as Ni, and Al et al.) are heated to a temperature above the eutectic point (for Au-Si alloy system, it is 363 C). Then, gas precursors such silane (SiH4) are fed, decomposed at the catalyst droplet surface and absorbed into the Au droplet (Schmidt et al. 2010). With 100 a Efficiency (%) b 0.1 $/W 0.2 $/W 0.5 $/W 1.0 $/W p-type SiNW i-layer n-layer SnO2 Glass or flexible sub p-type Thermodynamic limit Single bandgap limit 3.5 $/W 80 60 40 20 0 0 100 200 300 Cost USD/m2 400 500 2nd 3rd 1st Fig. 10 (a) The efﬁciency-cost plots and performance regimes for the three generation (Gen) of different Si solar cell technologies, which are the 1st Gen of bulk Si, the 2nd Gen of a-Si:H thin ﬁlm, and the 3rd Gen of nanostructured Si solar cells; (b) structural illustration of radial junction thin ﬁlm solar cells built on self-assembly Si NWs, representing a promising approach towards the 3rd Gen high performance and low-cost solar cells (Copyright 2017 by the authors) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 893 the increase of dissolved Si concentration, the solid Au droplets become molten and supersaturated, leading to nucleation of c-Si seeds at the catalyst droplets/substrate interface as illustrated in Fig. 11c. Then, continuous Si atoms precipitation and deposition at the c-Si seed/catalyst interface will kick off a unidirectional NW growth, with NW diameters being proportional to the sizes of the leading catalyst droplets. Obviously, during such a VLS growth, the metal droplets serve as soft templates to deﬁne both the initial position and the diameters of the as-grown Si NWs. Importantly, an effective n-type or p-type doping control of the SiNWs can be accomplished by introducing corresponding dopant gases such as PH3 or B2H6, respectively (Gudiksen et al. 2002). Meanwhile, the VLS growth mechanism has been successfully applied to grow various nanowire structures in radically different material systems (Si, Ge, III-V compound, metal oxide, and alloys), with a wide range of choices in the suitable metal catalysts and precursor gas species (Schmidt et al. 2010). Thus, given an effective control over the size and the distribution of the metal catalyst droplets, the VLS growth strategy provides a straightforward and efﬁcient approach to grow and optimize the Si NW structures, providing for the speciﬁc needs in the subsequent deposition and fabrication of radial junction solar cells. However, the use of Au as a catalyst poses a serious threat to solar cell applications as the Au atoms dissolved into the SiNWs during VLS growth will introduce a middle bandgap level in c-Si, as indicated in Fig. 12a (Schmidt et al. 2010), which is known to be a very efﬁcient recombination center for photo- carriers. According to the ShockleyReadHall recombination statistics (Shockley and Read 1952), the closer the energy level is to the middle of the band gap, the higher is the recombination rate and the lower is the carrier lifetime. Meanwhile, the persisting catalyst metals residing at the tips or left on the sidewall of the VLS-grown SiNWs are also serious contamination to the p-n or p-i-n junction interfaces and thus have to be removed and cleaned by post-growth chemical etching. On the other hand, forming a liquid catalyst droplet is a criterion for the VLS growth. Usually, the eutectic temperature of the metal-Si alloy is much lower than that of pure catalyst metals. For instance, the eutectic temperature of Au-Si alloy is only 363 C, compared to the melting temperature of 1064 C for Au and Fig. 11 Schematic illustration of the VLS process. (a) A metal catalyst layer is deposited on the substrate. (b) Upon heating, dewetting of the metal layer forms small droplets. (c) Introduction of vapor precursors leads to incorporation of the precursor inside the droplet and its precipitation at the catalystsubstrate interface. (d) Growth of SiNW via a VLS process 894 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas 1414 C for Si, as seen in the phase diagram of Au-Si in Fig. 13a. Searching for a low melting point catalyst is particularly important to achieve a low temperature VLS-growth of SiNWs. To this end, alternative catalyst metals, ideally with a lower eutectic/melting point that the Au-Si alloy, have to be sought in order to establish a reliable, low-cost, and clean SiNW framework for constructing high performance radial junction photovoltaics. Plasma Assisted VLS Growth Low Melting Point Metal as Catalyst In order to develop a low temperature growth of Si NWs, a group of low-melting- point (LMP) metals, including tin (Sn), indium (In), bismuth (Bi), and gallium (Ga), are recently explored as alternative catalyst metals to the commonly used Au to carry out a VLS growth of Si NWs (Alet et al. 2008; Yu et al. 2008, 2009, 2010a, b, 2011; Zardo et al. 2009, 2010, Misra et al. 2013a, b). As shown in Fig. 12a, the melting temperatures of this group of metals are well below 300 C, and all of them feature a metal-Si phase diagram similar to that of the alloy Sn-Si system (see Fig. 13b), where the eutectic temperature lies extremely close to the pure metal end. This enables, ﬁrst of all, a low temperature VLS growth that is fully compatible with conventional Si thin ﬁlm solar cell deposition process (typically 350 C). More importantly, as witnessed in Fig. 12a, in contrast to the detrimental mid-bandgap recombination centers caused by Au atoms in c-Si, the dissolution of LMP metal atoms into c-Si is far less harmful for the photocarriers, as they introduce only impurity levels far away 0,6 a b c 0,5 0,4 0,3 0,2 0,1 0,0 -0,1 -0,2 -0,3 -0,4 -0,5 -0,6 0 200 Ga In TI Zn AI Cu Ag Pt Fe Ni Co Ti Cr Pd Be Sn Pb Bi Li Sb Conduction Band Te Au 400 Impurity levels in Si [eV] 600 Valence Band Minimum temperature [C] for VLS Si wire growth 800 1000 1200 1400 σ1 σ1 β β σ1s σ1s σ1s=σ1cos β σ1s+σ1sin βσs σs σs Fig. 12 (a) Energy levels for different impurities in Si with respect to the middle of the band gap as a function of the minimum temperature required for VLS growth. The lines connect the defect energies available for the same impurity (Figure adapted with permission from (Schmidt et al. 2010). Copyright 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim). (b) For the catalyst droplet to be in mechanical equilibrium during growth, the horizontal components of the interface tensions must cancel out. (c) Nonequilibrium position where a net vertical force is required to re-establish the equilibrium and carry out stable growth (Figure adapted with permission from (Schmidt et al. 2010). Copyright 2010 American Chemical Society) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 895 from the mid-bandgap. For example, the incorporation of Sn (Group-IV element in the same Column of the Periodic Table as silicon) leads to only neutral impurity levels in c-Si. On the other hand, this catalyst atom incorporation can also be useful for constructing SiNW-based radial junction solar cells. It has been known that the dissolution of Group III element (In or Ga) atoms can result in effective p-type doping in the as-grown SiNWs, while the incorporation of Group V elements (Bi) will lead to opposite n-type doping. This catalyst doping effect can be Au-Si phase Diagram (Type A) Si Liquid 19% 0 0 300 600 900 1200 1500 20 40 60 Atomic Percent Silicon Temperature C Temperature [C] Si Si Sn 1400 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 Au 1414 C 13 C 100 90 80 70 60 SnSi (l) + Si (s) SnSi(l) 50 Atomic Percentage 40 Eutectic temp. 231.97C 30 20 10 βSn αSn 0 80 100 Au 363C VLS Growth a b Fig. 13 Schematic phase diagram of (a) AuSi and (b) SnSi systems (Figures adapted with permission from (Schmidt et al. 2010), Copyright 2009 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim) 896 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas considered as an extra bonus for the VLS-growth fabrication, as it enables not only a signiﬁcant procedure simpliﬁcation (for doping) but also exempts from the use of extremely toxic and hazardous dopant gases of diborane or phosphine. It is also important to note that in strong contrast to the case of the widely used boron and phosphorus dopant atoms, which cause shallow doping levels in c-Si that can be completely ionized at room temperature to give off holes and electrons, In atoms lead to a deeper donor level located 160 meVabove the valence band top, which cant be completely ionized at room temperature. As a consequence, despite of a high concentration of incorporated In, the actual p-type doping effect is quite limited and is equivalent to the boron doping effect at orders of magnitude lower concen- tration. In comparison, the impurity doping level caused by Bi atoms is much closer to the conduction band bottom edge (70 meV), which allows it achieve an effective and sufﬁcient n-type doping in Bi-catalyzed SiNWs to fabricate radial p-i-n junction solar cells upon the SiNWs as shown in Ref. (Yu et al. 2012a). However, the LMP metals were not considered, from the very beginning, as ideal or even viable candidates to mediate a stable VLS growth of Si NWs. This is because, as summarized in Table 2, the low-melting-point metals all feature a low surface tension 0.5 N/m compared to those of the c-Si sidewall facets, typically in a range of 1.01.5 N/m for major facets (Schmidt et al. 2009). As illustrated in Fig. 12b, c, a criterion for a stable VLS growth arises that the triple phase line (TPL) where the three phases (vacuum, liquid, and solid) meet has to be stable at the periphery of the growing SiNW top. Particularly, in the vertical direction, when new atomic layers are continuously deposited and formed at the SiNW top interface, the projected surface tension of the liquid metal droplet has to be larger than the surface tension on the sidewall of the SiNW, that is, σl sin β + σls  σs, in order to pull up the TPL line to the top corner of the SiNW tip and stabilize the liquid droplet residing always at the tip. Otherwise, the catalyst liquid will tend to spread on and wet the SiNW sidewall. For the commonly used metals (Au, Al, and Cu), this criterion can be easily met thanks to a relatively large surface tension of the catalysts compared to that of c-Si. However, this is not guaranteed for the LMP metals like Sn, In, and Bi, which all feature a much lower surface tension 0.7 N/m. It is because of this criterion, ﬁrst proposed by Nebolsin in 2003 (Nebolsin and Shchetinin 2003) and later re-formulated by Schmit in 2009 (Schmidt et al. 2009, 2010), that the LMP catalysts (Sn, In and Bi) are in general excluded from the list of suitable catalysts to mediate a stable VLS growth of SiNWs. Indeed, there are only few reports on the LMP metal catalyzed VLS growth of SiNWs in typical CVD environment. However, successful VLS growths of SiNW by using Sn or In as catalyst metals have been reported by Yu et al. in 2008 within a plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) system (Alet et al. 2008; Yu et al. 2008, 2009) and then by Ga (Zardo et al. 2009), Bi (Yu et al. 2012a) or an alloy of Bi-Sn in 2015 (Yu et al. 2015). These exceptions have been explained in a surface wetting layer model, where an ultra-thin LMP metal liquid layer is identiﬁed spreading on the sidewall of SiNWs during the VLS growth, which helps to modify and reduce the effective surface tension on the SiNW sidewalls and thus stabilize the catalyst droplets at the tip of the SiNWs (Misra et al. 2013a, b). A good news for solar cell applications is that as a 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 897 member of LMP metals, Sn can be completely removed by H2 plasma (van Herpen et al. 2010) from the SiNWs after growing them to required length. This allows a monolithic integration of clean SiNWs into the well-established low-temperature thin ﬁlm technology for fabricating high performance radial junction solar cells in conventional PECVD systems. More details of the LMP metal mediated VLS growth and the solar cell fabrication will be presented in later sections. Plasma-Assisted VLS growth of Silicon NWs During a typical VLS growth of SiNWs in a thermal activated CVD system, it is the catalyst metal drop, for instance, the most widely used Au, which catalyzes the dissociation of gas precursors (SiH4). Unfortunately, this simple CVD strategy does not apply to the LMP metals, as there is no proof of such catalytic dissociation mechanism that will take place on the surface of LMP metals. In addition, the LMP metals can be easily oxidized in air or exposure to remnant oxygen or water vapor in low vacuum system. The formation of a thin oxide layer covering the droplet will prevent the absorption of gas precursors by the droplets and make it impossible to growth SiNWs via a VLS mechanism. This is however not an issue if the LMP metals are exposed to plasma enhanced gas feeding in a PECVD system, where the precursor gases are dissociated into active radicals of SiHx by a high frequency electric ﬁeld modulation, usually at 13.56 MHz or higher. Therefore, no catalytic effect is required for the metal droplets. More importantly, the thin oxide layer covering on the LMP droplets can be easily reduced by the Hrich plasma environ- ment back into metal, which thus re-open the surface of LMP droplets to absorb silicon radicals and precipitate SiNWs via a VLS mechanism. As a consequence of a radical precursor feeding, the growth rate of SiNWs is also signiﬁcantly enhanced in the PECVD system and the VLS growth can take place now at a much lower growth temperature, even down to 230 C (Yu et al. 2009). Meanwhile, as the PECVD method is a nonequilibrium process, the growth kinetics of NWs can be quite different from the conventional VLS situation. For example, a concurrent a-Si:H deposition on the SiNW sidewall usually happens and results in a tapering geometry of the SiNWs, where composite SiNWs with a crystalline core and amorphous/or polycrystalline shell structure are usually observed, especially at low temperature growth (Yu et al. 2010a, b). A more comprehensive theoretical description and discussion, as well as the key supporting experimental observations, on the unique Table 2 Surface tension of metals in liquid forms (Misra et al. 2014) Metal σ1 (Nm1) Metal σ1 (Nm1) Ga 0.690.718 Cu 1.231.37 In 0.50.566 Ag 0.90.925 Sn 0.5450.575 Pd 1.241.482 Bi 0.3550.371 Pt 1.221.860 Au 0.911.22 Ni 1.31.838 Zn 0.7670.815 Fe 1.831.859 Al 0.821.070 898 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas aspects of LMP metal catalyzed VLS growth are available in the References (Yu et al. 2010a, b, 2011; Misra et al. 2013a, b). Density Control of Catalyst Droplets In order to optimize light trapping in SiNW solar cell arrays, it is very important to control the density and the size distribution of the metal droplets, as they will be translated during the VLS growth into the density and diameter of the SiNWs. As mentioned above, there have been several ways to arrange the metal droplets on the substrate, e.g., by optical lithography, nano-imprint lithography, nanosphere lithog- raphy, or the use of a porous alumina mask. The simplest, as well the most economic, method is to form metal droplets via self-assembly process. In this process, a thin ﬁlm of metal is evaporated on the substrate and annealed either above the eutectic temperature (when the substrate is a Si wafer) or above the melting point of the metal (for any substrate other than Si). If an Au covered Si substrate is heated above 363 C (eutectic temperature of AuSi, see Fig. 13), liquid Au-Si alloy droplets will form with a density and size distribution determined by the annealing temperature, the surface chemistry, and the annealing atmosphere. The advantage of self-assembly is that all process steps, starting from organizing metal droplets to the SiNW growth, can be carried out without removing the samples from the vacuum system. For low surface tension metals such as Sn, In, Ga, or Bi, the metal layer can be obtained either by evaporating a thin metallic ﬁlm or by reducing a metal oxide substrate, such as tin oxide (SnO2) (Yu et al. 2008, 2009) or indium tin oxide (ITO) (Alet et al. 2008) via a simple H2 plasma treatment in a PECVD system. Yu et al. applied a H2 plasma to superﬁcially reduce 100 nm SnO2 deposited on a Corning glass substrate at a nominal temperature of 300 C and investigated the effect of the plasma treatment time (Yu et al. 2008, 2009). With the increase of the temperature and the duration of the H2 plasma treatment, the molten Sn droplets are formed on the substrate surface and promoted to coalesce with neighboring ones over a longer distance (being proportional to the diffusion distance of the metal atoms). As a result, larger and sparse droplets can be obtained by enhancing the surface diffusion at a higher temperature. The effect of annealing temperature on the In catalyst droplet density and size distribution were studied quite systematically in Ref. (Yu et al. 2012b), where In droplets were formed by reducing a thin layer of sputtered ITO on ZnO:Al coated Cg. The temperature of the substrate was varied between 160 C and 260 C, and a gradual decrease in the droplet diameter with decreasing substrate temperature was observed (the corresponding SEM images are shown in Fig. 14a). The diameter distribution and the size dispersion are shown in Fig. 14bd. Obvi- ously, with the increase in temperature, the distribution becomes wider, and the size dispersion increases. Therefore, the substrate temperature and H2 plasma treatment conditions are very efﬁcient control parameters to engineer the density and size dispersion of the catalyst droplets, as well as the as-grown SiNWs, which have to be properly controlled in pursuit of an optimal light trapping and high quality radial junction formation. On the other hand, the initial thickness of the evaporated or sputtered metal layer is another effective parameter to control the density and size of the droplets. 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 899 Moreover, several factors, e.g., roughness and chemical homogeneity of the sub- strate, the surface energy of the substrate, as well as the choice of the metal, can affect particle formation. VLS Growth of SiNWs In contrast with the abundant literature on VLS growth of NWs, usually by Au or other noble metals, very few researches have be carried out to investigate the plasma- assisted SiNW growth, particularly with LMP metals as catalyst. TEM studies on PECVD grown SiNWs reveal a variety of morphologies consisting of a crystalline core and a shell which can be either crystalline, amorphous, or nanocrystalline (Alet et al. 2008; Yu et al. 2008, 2009, 2010a, b, 2011). Normally, NWs are randomly tilted when they are grown on top of an amorphous substrate. For low surface tension LMP metals, it has been observed that NWs do not exhibit clear preferential growth direction, even when grown on single crystalline substrates. Figure 15a shows the Fig. 14 (a) SEM images of the indium catalyst drops formed on top of ZnO:Al-coated glass at various substrate temperatures by hydrogen plasma treatment, as well as the SEM images of the as-grown SiNWs. (bd) Present the extracted distributions, in terms of diameter, density, and size dispersion of the indium catalyst drops obtained as a function of the substrate temperature (Yu et al. 2012b) (Copyright 2012 IOP Publishing Ltd) 900 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas plasma-assisted VLS-grown randomly tilted SiNWs on a Si100  oriented c-Si substrate (Zardo et al. 2010). This is in strong contrast to the best known Au-catalyzed epitaxial growth of SiNWs on c-Si substrates which have undergone the same treatment as in the case of Sn catalyst. A possible reason is that Au is known to catalyze the reduction of SiO2 layer upon annealing at elevated tempera- ture, which is critical to establish a coherent interface between the c-Si substrate with the SiNW standing upon. Unfortunately, this mechanism does not exist for the LMP metals and the oxide layer between the metal droplet and the c-Si substrate is hard to remove during typical VLS growth condition. Nevertheless, epitaxial growth of in-plane SiNWs, which is an interesting reference system with the same catalyst (In) but using a-Si:H thin ﬁlm as precursor, has been successfully observed on c-Si substrate (Yu et al. 2014b). This means that epitaxial growth of In catalyzed SiNWs with VLS is still feasible given a proper control of the interface oxide. For VLS growth in a CVD reactor at temperatures low enough to prevent thermal dissociation of SiH4 (650 C), single-crystal Au-catalyzed SiNWs with uniform diameters can be obtained. As the dissociation of SiH4 molecules occurs only at the surface of the Au catalyst, the process only promotes axial growth. This is illustrated schematically in Fig. 15b (Ball et al. 2013). However, an uncatalyzed radial growth leading to a conical shape can occur at temperatures high enough for the thermal decomposition of gas precursors. For plasma-assisted VLS, the plasma dissociates the source gas. In that case, the reactive species can promote both axial and radial growth, leading to a tapered structure, as shown schematically in Fig. 15c. Yu et al. observed plasma-enhanced sidewall deposition for Sn-catalyzed SiNWs grown at low temperature using pure SiH4 precursor, where the size of the crystalline core is determined by the size of the metal droplet (Yu et al. 2008, 2009). The SiNWs were observed to become straighter at higher temperatures. SiH4 SiH4 SiHN- Si Catalytic axial growth Thermal CVD (300C) PECVD (300C) No dissociation No radial growth Radial growth (film deposition) a b c Fig. 15 (a) Randomly tilted SiNWs grown on a Si 100 substrate using In in a PECVD reactor (scale bar is 1 μm) (Adapted with permission from (Yu et al. 2014b). Copyright 2010 Springer- Verlag). Schematic illustration of (b) low-temperature thermal CVD and (c) PECVD. For thermal CVD only catalytic axial growth occurs, while in PECVD the dissociation of SiH4 molecules by electron impact leads to both radial expansion and axial growth (Figure adapted with permission from (Ball et al. 2013). Copyright 2007 American Institute of Physics) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 901 More interestingly, recent studies have shown that Sn-assisted SiNW growth can continue without any visible metal droplet on top. To trace the growth evolution, a series of samples with growth durations ranging from 4 min to 4 h have been prepared. The average length and average diameter measured at the base of the NWs are estimated from SEM images and plotted against growth duration in Fig. 16a, b, respectively. Up to 20 min, the growth follows a normal VLS behavior with Sn droplets resting on top of the SiNWs and the average length increasing linearly with the growth duration. During this initial phase, the radial growth is negligible, as can be observed in Fig. 16b. When the growth duration was extended to 60 min, SiNWs became sharply tapered and continued to grow longer with average length proportional to the growth duration, even though SEM images did not reveal any Sn droplet on top of the NWs. On the other hand, a radial expansion was observed for this growth duration (phase 2), as shown in Fig. 16b. At 240 min of deposition time, the axial growth rate was found to saturate, while the radial growth rate increased and became comparable to the a-Si:H growth rate on planar substrates. These observations can be explained by the presence of an ultrathin Sn wetting layer Phase 2 Growth duration (Minutes) Growth duration (Minutes) Length(mm) Diameter(nm) Phase 1 Phase 3 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 0 50 100 1 nm/sec 0,77 nm/sec 0,5 nm/sec 0,032 nm/sec 0,033 nm/sec 0,054 nm/sec 0,055 nm/sec 0,22 nm/sec 0,9 nm/sec 0,54 nm/sec 150 200 250 10 100 100 1000 2 nm initial Sn layer 6 nm initial Sn layer 2 nm initial Sn layer 6 nm initial Sn layer Sidewall wetting layer of Sn ZnO:AI Cg Phase 1 ZnO:AI Cg Phase 2 ZnO:AI Cg a-Si:H SiNW shell SiNW core Phase 3 a c b d Fig. 16 (a, b) SiNW length and diameter as functions of growth duration for two values of the Sn thickness. (c) Schematic illustration of the Sn-assisted SiNW growth process, which can be divided into three phases. In the ﬁrst phase, Sn droplets and the sidewall wetting layer coexist, while in the second phase mainly the ultrathin wetting layer promotes the growth, both in axial and radial directions. In the third phase, the wetting layer is exhausted and growth continues via a-Si:H deposition from silicon radicals. (d) Sn droplets on the sidewalls, resulting from the breakdown of the wetting layer after plasma extinction (observed in phases 1 and 2) (Figure adapted with permission from (Misra et al. 2013a, b). Copyright 2013 American Chemical Society) 902 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas on the SiNW sidewall (Yu et al. 2010a, b; Misra et al. 2013a, b). The wetting layer helps to stabilize low surface tension metal catalyst droplets on top of the NWs and also enhances the axial growth rate as Si adatoms landing on sidewalls may diffuse along the wetting layer to the top. This effectively suppresses the radial expansion in the ﬁrst phase (up to 20 min), where the lengths of NWs remain smaller than the diffusion length of adatoms, and the sidewall wetting layer and Sn droplet on top of the NWs coexist. A schematic illustration of the growth model is given in Fig. 16c. In the next phase (up to 120 min of growth duration), the ultrathin Sn wetting layer mediates the absorption of SiHx radicals and the axial growth continues, despite the disappearance of the catalyst droplet from the top of the NWs. On the other hand, when the SiNWs become longer than the diffusion length of adatoms, Si atoms nucleate on the sidewall surface and therefore enhance the radial growth rate. This leads to a coreshell SiNW structure with a crystalline core and a polycrystalline shell. Further support to the hypothesis of a wetting layer during plasma-assisted VLS growth is given by the SEM image in Fig. 16d, where tiny Sn droplets are observed on the SiNW sidewalls. This is attributed to the breakdown of the wetting layer during the cooling process in the absence of a plasma. In the ﬁnal phase (after 120 min of growth), when the liquid wetting layer is completely exhausted due to continuous etching, the axial growth begins to saturate and the plasma exposure leads to a-Si:H deposition, which turns needle-like SiNWs into more uniform cylinders. Optical Properties of Si NWs Minimizing reﬂection and transmission losses is a critical issue for any kind of solar cell. Reﬂection losses can be reduced by depositing an antireﬂective coating (ARC), normally a thin ﬁlm of an index-matched dielectric material, on the front surface of the cells. A bare Si substrate reﬂects over 30% of the incident light at normal incidence, but this can be brought down to 3% using an ARC. The refractive index and the thickness of the layer can be chosen in such a way that light reﬂecting from the airARC interface and the ARCsubstrate interface interfere destructively. This eliminates reﬂection for normal incidence of a single wavelength, while multilayers of dielectric can be used to broaden the range of wavelengths with some added complexity in the deposition process. NWs with proper diameters and densities signiﬁcantly reduce reﬂectance over a broad range of solar spectrum. Tapered NWs or nanocones, with tips much smaller than their base, provide an effective medium with a gradual change in refractive index and can outperform both NWs and thin ﬁlms over a wide range of angles (Huang et al. 2007a; Zhu et al. 2008), but at the cost of sharp features which are more difﬁcult to passivate. On the other hand, transmission losses can be minimized by using light trapping schemes which geometrically increase the optical path inside the absorber and allow to reduce the amount of material. For wafer-based c-Si solar cells, surface texturing is usually achieved by KOH wet etching of 100 c-Si wafers (for more details see Chap. 12, Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization), while for thin-ﬁlm Si solar cells the conventional way is to texture the front TCO (see Chap. 20, Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film). Texturing of TCOs can be achieved 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 903 either by controlling the deposition process (low-pressure CVD) or by treating a sputtered ZnO:Al layer in a hydrochloric acid solution. In such cases, light propa- gates at some angle, rather than perpendicular to the substrate, resulting in an increased optical path. Yablonovitch and Cody showed that for a perfect Lambertian reﬂector, the optical path can be increased by a factor of 4n2, where n is the refractive index of the material (Yablonovitch and Cody 1982). Excellent light trapping and harvesting performance can be easily achieved for randomly tilted PECVD grown SiNWs. For example, Fig. 17a, b shows the transmission and absorption spectra of a matrix of VLS-grown SiNWs catalyzed by tin on SnO2 coated Corning (Cg) glass, with different deposition durations of 15, 60, and 120 min, which are characterized by using a PerkinElmer Lambda 950 spectrophotometer with an integrating sphere. The inset of Fig. 17a presents a typical SEM image of the as-grown SiNWs after 15 min deposition. For comparison, reference samples of SnO2/Cg substrate before and after H2 plasma treatment are also presented. The H2 plasma treatment is necessary to reduce superﬁcially (not completely) the SnO2 to release and form Sn droplets as catalyst for subsequent VLS growth of SiNWs. It is clear that with the increase of deposition time of the SiNWs, the falling edge of the transmission curve shifts signiﬁcantly to longer wavelength (to lower photon energy). In parallel, the absorption edge of the SiNW matrix approaches the c-Si bandgap limit of 1.1 eV with the increase of the length of SiNWs as a consequence of longer deposition time. This observation indicates that the increased light trapping and absorption effects observed here are related to the growth of SiNWs on top of the SnO2 layer. Actually, the SiNW samples with the longest deposition duration look totally black, indicating a very strong and efﬁcient enhanced light trapping and absorption effect. Fig. 17 (a) and (b) show the optical transmission and absorption spectra of random SiNWs grown on SnO2 coated Corning glass substrate via plasma enhanced VLS mechanism, with hydrogen diluted silane gas as precursor, for different growth duration from 150 to 1200. The data of reference samples of bare and hydrogen plasma treated SnO2 coated Corning glass substrates are also presented for comparison (Figure adapted with permission from (Yu et al. 2010a, b). Copyright 2010 American Chemical Society) 904 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas It is also noteworthy that while SiNWs can provide strong light trapping, this does not guarantee an efﬁcient collection of the photo-generated carriers. In this respect, the electronic properties of the wires and the passivation of surface defects are crucial. The beneﬁt of plasma-assisted VLS is that a-Si:H can provide an excellent passivation to the c-Si surface or SiNW cores as demonstrated in the case of heterojunction solar cells and the radial junction solar cells addressed in our follow- ing sections. Doping Effect and Dopant Distribution in VLS-Grown Si NWs While top-down SiNWs have the same doping as the original wafer, the doping type and level for bottom-up ones depend on doping precursors added to the silane plasma. During a VLS growth, dopant gases such as PH3 or B2H6 can be introduced along with the precursor gases to achieve n-type or p-type doping in the as-grown SiNWs, respectively (Gudiksen et al. 2002). However, measuring the doping effect or concentration in SiNWs is not straightforward because the common Hall effect or secondary ion mass spectrometry measurement techniques cannot be easily implemented on such nanostructures. For that purpose, atom probe tomography (APT) is better suited as it allows one to quantitatively reconstruct a particular volume of the NWs and to measure the dopant distribution. A nonuniform distribu- tion of dopant atoms with a higher surface dopant concentration has been observed for in situ doped NWs by using APT analysis. Figure 18a shows the cross-section of radial and axial boron (B) concentration in the core of an Au-catalyzed SiNW fabricated using CVD (Chen et al. 2012). Within the analyzed volume of 30  30  116 nm3, the B atoms are inhomogeneously distributed. The radial concentration proﬁle of B in SiNW is shown in Fig. 18b. It can be deduced that the B concentration is 8.1  1018 cm3 in the center of the SiNW and gradually increases towards the edge to 7.1  1019 cm3. Meanwhile, the incorporation of Sn or In catalyst atoms into the VLS-grown SiNWs was also investigated by APT technology (Chen et al. 2014). Interestingly, the concentration of In atoms, which are also a p-type dopant in c-Si, is found to be around 3  1018/cm3, but could increase further at higher growth rate. Although theoretical predictions are very promising, the journey of NW-based radial junction solar cells is quite challenging. Most of the early radial junction prototypes were limited by a series of problems such as catalyst contamination, nonconformal coating, and poor electrical quality, leading to low energy conversion efﬁciencies. Often, the reported values of the open circuit voltage were below 300 mV. Top-down approaches based on the etching of the c-Si wafer pushed the open circuit voltage beyond 500 mV and drove the energy conversion efﬁciency above 10%. On the other hand, using Cu and combining it with the proper catalyst cleaning method, Atwaters group demonstrated 7.9% power conversion efﬁciency for NWs produced via the VLS method (Putnam et al. 2010). The following sections will proceed to describe the formation and characterization of radial junc- tion solar cells highlighting the speciﬁc steps, which require extra care during the fabrication. 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 905 Radial p-i-n Junction Thin Film Solar Cells Radial Junction Deposition Over SiNWs Once the NWs are fabricated, a junction must be formed for a successful collection of photo-generated carriers after the absorption of incident photons in the active layer. For silicon thin-ﬁlm solar cells (a-Si:H and μc-Si:H), an intrinsic layer must be introduced between p-type and n-type doped layers, because the doped layers are highly defective and do not contribute to the collected photocurrent. Thus, for optimized performance of a radial PIN junction, the intrinsic layer thickness should be limited by the diffusion length of the minority carriers in the material under consideration, i.e., 100200 nm and  1 μm for a-Si:H and μc-Si:H, respectively. In general, Jsc increases with the NW length as the absorption is enhanced, and eventually it saturates when the NW becomes much longer than the optical thickness of the material. In contrast, Voc usually decreases with increasing NW length as the dark current is also proportional to the surface recombination. Unlike Jsc, Voc changes signiﬁcantly with the defect density in the depletion region. The fabrication, characterization, and device performance of radial p-i-n junction solar cells will be discussed in following sections. Individual Radial Junction Solar Cells The study of single NW solar cells is very challenging as well as extremely important to understand the absorption, transport, doping, and surface properties of the cells. Individual NW solar cells have been measured in some cases by lithographically contacting VLS-grown single SiNWs. Tian et al. were the ﬁrst to experimentally realize the concept of coaxial PIN SiNW radial junction solar cells (Tian et al. 2007). The p-type SiNWs were grown via an Au-catalyzed VLS process and subsequently coated with an i-type and an n-type polycrystalline shell. After that, they contacted the n-type shell and p-type core and measured efﬁciencies up to 8.0x1019 6.0x1019 4.0x1019 2.0x1019 0.0 0 4 8 radius (nm) B concentration (cm-3) B concentration 0 0.25 at.% experience data 12 16 a b Fig. 18 (a) Cross-section of radial and axial B concentration in SiNWs. The analyzed volume is 30  30  116 nm3. (b) Radial concentration proﬁle of B in a SiNW. The inset is the cross-section view of individual B atom distribution in SiNW. The red arrow represents the path along which the B concentration is measured (Figure replotted with permission from (Chen et al. 2012). Copyright 2012 American Institute of Physics) 906 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas 3.4% under AM 1.5G illumination with a remarkable Jsc of 23.9 mA cm2 (upper bound). There is also report on single vertical coreshell PIN junction GaAs NW solar cell which can accomplish one order of magnitude higher absorption beyond the LambertBeer law (Krogstrup et al. 2013). The results are a very inspiring consequence of the antenna concept, but it must be kept in mind that the collective absorption of an array of radial junctions in an actual device can be signiﬁcantly different from the single one. Alternatively, electron and optical beam-induced current (EBIC and OBIC) techniques, as well as conductive atomic force microscopy (AFM) can be used to locally assess the properties of individual radial junctions (Fejfar et al. 2013; Yu et al. 2013). These characterization techniques are really important, as there are millions of individual units in a solar cell and a weak diode can shunt photocurrents generated by a large number of neighboring junctions. In EBIC or OBIC measurements, an electrical or optical beam is swept across the sample and the output current of the device is recorded. The resolution is limited by the beam spot sizes, which are 2 nm and 2 μm for EBIC and OBIC, respectively. The current responses from individual radial junction solar cells are probed and compared with their planar counterparts. Remarkably, the high spatial resolution provided by EBIC microscopy allows tracing the current generated in different segments of a single RJ cell. The measured EBIC signal is proportional to the electron-hole generation rate in the intrinsic absorber layer caused by the impinging electron beam. Indeed, in the case of slightly tilted SiNW cells seen in Fig. 19a, b, the EBIC current signal is found to vary along the NW axis. The highest EBIC signal has been recorded at the tip of RJ cells, and then the EBIC current decreases towards their roots. This ﬁnding implies that a good core conductivity and thus an efﬁcient p-type doping have been achieved in the ultrathin SiNW cores, despite the small diameter of the sharply tapered tips. And it is indeed possible to use ultra-thin SiNWs (only 20 nm in diameter) as inner cores to construct radial p-i-n junction. As the size of the EBIC probing electron beam is around 2 nm. Within the PIN junctions, the probability of inelastic collisions is proportional to the effective thickness of the intrinsic layer. As a consequence, given the same absorber medium, the magnitude of detected EBIC signal provides a reasonable measure of the effective volume of the active intrinsic absorber within a local PIN junction under electron beam probing. More experimental results and discussions are available in Ref. (Yu et al. 2013). Surprisingly, the radial junctions are quite robust against geometrical disorder and even crossing, as shown in Fig. 19d, e. As a matter of fact, mutual shadowing and even crossing are basically inevitable among a randomly oriented matrix of VLS-grown SiNWs. Figure 19d shows, for example, the SEM image captured among a dense matrix of random SiNW/RJ cells, where crossing and even merging between neighboring RJ-Cell units are clearly witnessed. Regardless of these geo- metrical imperfections as marked by the arrows, EBIC mapping in Fig. 19e on these regions indicates no signiﬁcant current degradation. Actually, the joining parts of SiNW units generate a comparable or even higher current with respect to neighboring isolated radial junctions. These observations show a larger-than- expected tolerance of our radial junction solar cells to the geometrical disorder of 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 907 the random SiNW matrix and provide a strong experimental proof that it is possible to fabricate efﬁcient radial junctions over random SiNW arrays. In addition, conductive AFM characterization provides another convenient and straightforward means to probe the local (opto) electronic properties of the radial junction units grown upon the SiNWs (Fejfar et al. 2013), where the local conduc- tivity mapping can be determined with peak force tunneling AFM. Note that conductivity maps of the SiNWs are inﬂuenced by scattered light from the laser, which cannot be switched off during the measurement. With some additional advancement, this instrument can also be used to scan the variation of the local JV characteristics of the cells. From Single NW Cells to Millions/cm2 in Parallel Although there are numerous approaches to grow SiNWs and hence radial junctions over them, this section will focus on building radial junction thin ﬁlm solar cells over plasma-assisted VLS-grown SiNW framework. Over the last 6 years, the perfor- mance of radial junction thin ﬁlm solar cells, in terms of power conversion efﬁ- ciency, has made steady progress from below 1% to 9.2% (Yu et al. 2010a, b, 2012a, b; ODonnell et al. 2012; Cho et al. 2013; Misra et al. 2013a, b, 2015; Qian et al. 2015). At the beginning, a TCO (either ITO or SnO2) covered glass was used substrate, which is then exposed to H2 plasma treatment to superﬁcially reduce the 1.4 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.40.0 0.5 IEBIC(nA) 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5(um) Fig. 19 (a) and (b) show the secondary electron SEM imaging and the corresponding EBIC current signal mapping of the same regions of sparse SiNWs RJ-cells, respectively. A line-proﬁle analysis of the EBIC signal intensity, crossing two standing RJ-cells, is presented in (c). (d) and (e) present the secondary electron SEM and EBIC current mapping of the radial junctions realized on top of a dense matrix of SiNWs, with the arrows pointing at the strong EBIC current generation points despite apparently crossings of radial junctions (Figure adapted with permission from (Yu et al. 2013). Copyright 2013 IOP Publishing Ltd) 908 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas top layer and produce metal droplets for plasma-assisted VLS growth of SiNWs (Yu et al. 2010a, b). The very ﬁrst radial junction solar cells were fabricated in a standard superstrate conﬁguration with a multilayer thin ﬁlm structure of glass/ TCO/intrinsic c-Si NW/intrinsic a-Si:H/n-type a-Si:H/Al back contact. To charac- terize the solar cell performance, light was shined through the glass substrate and then the TCO layer. For these cells, conversion efﬁciencies were poor mainly due to the insufﬁcient p-type doping of the SiNW cores solely by the incorporation of catalyst atom of In, without other dopant gases during the VLS growth. Then, the solar cell performance was largely improved thanks to two contributions: (1) ﬁrst, the doping in SiNWs was greatly enhanced by adding trimethylboron (TMB) during their VLS growth, and (2) second, the light was changed to shed from the top through a transparent TCO layer, in order to expose the 3D radial junction interface directly to the incident light for a maximal light trapping effect. These modiﬁcations brought in exciting progresses that boosted the efﬁciency of the radial junction solar cells to 4.9% for Sn-catalyzed SiNWs (ODonnell et al. 2012). Further on, optimiz- ing the doping control in the SiNW cores and the thin ﬁlm layers helped to achieve an even higher Voc of 0.80 V and Jsc of 12.4 mA cm2, which is close to the value obtained for planar cells deposited on Asahi U-type textured SnO2 substrates. A schematic structure and the corresponding SEM image of the solar cells are shown in Fig. 20a, b, respectively. The p-type SiNWs are grown on glass substrates covered with 1 μm thick ZnO:Al (which serves as the back contact), and a thin layer of evaporated Sn. After that, NWs were covered with conformal layers of intrinsic and n-type a-Si:H by exposing the samples to silane and silane plus phosphine plasmas, respectively. Finally, ITO was sputtered through a shadow mask to form the transparent top contact and connect millions of radial junctions in parallel. The inset in Fig. 20d shows a picture of an actual device with silver dots on the ITO pad to place the probe for electrical measurements. The current densityvoltage (J-V) characteristics of SiNW solar cells are presented in Fig. 20c with different partial pressures of TMB (diluted in 98% H2). It can be observed that the open circuit voltage increases with the TMB partial pressure and saturates above 42 mTorr. It has been found that the length of NWs and the thickness of the n-type a-Si:H signiﬁcantly affect the device performance. Increasing the length of NWs from 1 to 3 μm leads to 50% more current generation and correspondingly the energy conversion efﬁciency increases from 3.4% to 6%. Reduc- ing the deposition time of the n-type a-Si:H improves the spectral response in the blue part, but thinner n layers also lead to reduced FF. Then, the impact of the SiNW density on Jsc, as well as the overall performance, was investigated and optimized. By controlling the density of In and Sn droplets and hence the density of NWs, a trade-off has to be sought in order to have simulta- neously a sufﬁciently high density of radial junctions leading to a sufﬁcient light trapping, and enough space between them to allow for a uniform deposition of subsequent thin ﬁlm layers. As discussed in previous sections, the density of the catalyst droplets can be varied by controlling the plasma parameters and the initial metal ﬁlm deposition conditions. Optimizing the density of SiNWs has resulted in a high power conversion efﬁciency of 8.14% for radial junctions built over a Sn-catalyzed SiNW matrix (Misra et al. 2013a, b). It must be noted that a relatively 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 909 high short circuit current density of 16.1 mA cm2 has been achieved with only 100 nm a-Si:H intrinsic layer, which is much thinner than the usual thickness of planar a-Si:H cells ( 250 nm) deposited on textured substrates. Using very thin absorber layers has two major advantages, apart from reducing the material con- sumption: ﬁrstly, for the same doping level, it provides a stronger built-in ﬁeld for better collection of carriers and secondly, the thinner i-layer improves the stability of the device under light soaking, also related to the stronger ﬁeld within the intrinsic layer of the solar cell. The second advantage is demonstrated in Fig. 21, showing the JV curves before and after 120 h of light soaking. These measurements conﬁrm the excellent stability of the cells, with a mere 6% light-induced degradation compared with 1520% observed in planar cells. ITO n-type a-Si:H intrinsic a-Si:H p-type SiNW p-type a-Si:H ZnO glass 0 -5 -10 -15 -20 -0,4-0,2 0,0 0,2 0,4 Voltage (V) Current (mA.cm-2) 0,6 [TMB] = 0 mTorr [TMB] = 10 mTorr [TMB] = 15 mTorr [TMB] = 42 mTorr [TMB] = 53 mTorr 0,8 1,0 400 Q.E. (%) 0 20 40 40 80 100 6 minutes 10 minutes 20 minutes 9.3 mA.cm-2 8.5 mA.cm-2 6.7 mA.cm-2 n-layer deposition 500 600 700 Wave length (nm) 800 900 c d a b Fig. 20 (a) Schematic diagram of a SiNW radial junction unit cell. (b) SEM micrograph of radial junction solar cells after sputtering the ITO top contact. The inset shows a picture of the completed device. (c) JV characteristics of radial junction PIN solar cells with different TMB (diluted in 98% H2) partial pressures, used to grow p-type SiNWs. Note that the Voc increases with the partial pressure of the doping gas and saturates beyond 42 mTorr. (d) Spectral response of SiNW solar cells grown with different thicknesses of n-type a-Si:H (Figure adapted with permission from [149]. Copyright 2011 Elsevier) 910 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas Nevertheless, the PIN conﬁguration with the light impinging from the n-type a-Si:H is not ideal from the electrical point of view. Indeed, in this case, most of the high- energy photons are absorbed and produce the highest generation rate of electronhole pairs near the i-aSi:H/n-aSi:H interface. Having a shorter diffusion length compared with electrons, most of the holes may recombine before being collected. Moreover, the electric ﬁeld at the interface depends on the Fermi level difference between the two layers. As intrinsic a-Si:H is slightly n-type, this results in a stronger ﬁeld at the pi interface than at the ni interface. Thus, n-type c-SiNW/i-aSi:H/p-type a-Si:H should be more efﬁcient than its reverse conﬁguration. Xie et al. fabricated NIP radial junction solar cells on ﬂexible stainless steel substrates and demonstrated an efﬁciency of 3.57% (Xie et al. 2013). In a similar way to our process, they reduced a thin layer of ITO by atomic hydrogen treatment and then used a SiH4 + PH3 gas mixture to grow n-type SiNWs. Adachi et al. used an original structure to demonstrate a 6% conversion efﬁciency for NIP conﬁguration with a remarkable Voc of 0.83 V (Adachi et al. 2013). First, they grew Sn-catalyzed SiNWs on Al-coated glass substrates by PECVD and then covered them by a thin layer of ZnO:Al. The purpose of the ZnO:Al barrier layer is to isolate the nanocluster catalyst from the active NIP structure and prevent counter doping by Al from the back contact. As discussed earlier, the catalyst incorporation is inevitable inside NWs and the catalyst metals can generate an effective and useful doping in the SiNWs for solar cell fabrication. In a novel approach, Yu et al. used Bi to mediate VLS growth and Fig. 21 JV characteristics measured in the as-deposited state and after 120 h of light soaking. The use of only a 100 nm intrinsic layer remarkably improves the stability under light soaking (Figure adapted with permission from (Misra et al. 2013a, b). Copyright 2013 Elsevier) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 911 utilized the n-type doping provided by metal incorporation for building radial NIP solar cells (Yu et al. 2012a). This work provides the ﬁrst evidence that catalyst doping in the SiNW cores, caused by incorporating Bi catalyst atoms as n-type dopant, can be utilized to fabricate radial junction solar cells. As seen in Fig. 22a, the incorporation of Bi atoms can lead to signiﬁcant n-type doping effect in both crystalline SiNWs and amorphous a-Si:H samples. With the aid of Bi-catalyzed SiNWs, a strong light trapping effect helped to boost the short circuit current to Jsc = 11.23 mA/cm2, while the open circuit voltage also ramped up to Voc = 0.76 V, without the use of extremely toxic phosphine gas. This is an advantage for radial junction solar cells as it will lead to signiﬁcant procedure simpliﬁcation and cost reduction for scalable photovoltaic applications. In addition, there is also a unique aspect for radial junction conﬁguration, which is very different from their planar counterpart, as depicted schematically in Fig. 22b and c. In contrast to the uniform built-in ﬁeld in a planar junction, the built-in ﬁeld in a radial junction is established by a pair of asymmetrical electrodes with different facing areas, as seen for instance in Fig. 22c, and thus becomes nonuniform over the i-layer. Speciﬁcally, when coating on top of a SiNW with radius of rSiNW, the built-in ﬁeld in a radial i-layer is described as a function of the distance t, measured from the n-i interface, as Eradial tð Þ ¼ Voc r þ t ð ÞLn 1 þ t=r ð Þ ¼ Eplanar tð Þ  1 1 þ r=t ð ÞLn 1 þ t=r ð Þ (1) As a consequence, Eradial(t) in the radial junction will decreases gradually from the maximum ﬁeld intensity of Emax radialni ¼ Eplanar at the inner n-i interface, to the Fig. 22 (a) 3D cross-section illustration of a coreshell SiNW device structure. The intrinsic region can be either amorphous or microcrystalline. (b) EQE spectra of a microcrystalline SiNW coreshell structure and planar cells. The coreshell solar cell with the longest NWs demonstrates the highest quantum efﬁciency at all wavelengths (Yu et al. 2012a) (Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society) 912 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas minimum intensity of Eradial_p  i at the outer p-i interface. Particularly, at the outer p-i interface, the ratio of the radial junction building ﬁeld over that in a planar counterpart, with the same intrinsic layer thickness, can be written as Eradial_pi=Eplanar ¼ 1 1 þ 1=f ð ÞLn 1 þ f ð Þ , where f ¼ tiSi=rSiNW: (2) This implies that the sweeping electric ﬁeld at the outer p-i interface in a radial junction solar cell will be somehow reduced with a thick intrinsic absorber layer compared to the diameter of SiNW core. As a consequence, increasing the i-layer thickness is not always beneﬁcial. An optimal geometry design of the multilayer radial junction structure has to take into account this unique feature of nonuniform built-in electric ﬁeld in radial junction solar cells. Until now, only a few groups have explored μc-Si:H as a potential candidate for radial junction thin-ﬁlm solar cells. Compared with a-Si:H, μc-Si:H offers better stability under light soaking and a broad wavelength absorption owing to its low band gap energy. However, the overall performance of the cells with longer SiNWs is worse, despite their higher Jsc, mainly due to lower Voc and FF. Note that the spectral response extends up to 1000 nm, which makes μc-Si:H a promising candi- date for the bottom cell in tandem a-Si:H/μc-Si:H radial junction solar cells. Recently, in order to minimize the absorption loss in the highly doped window a-Si:H layers, a wide bandgap material, e.g., hydrogenated microcrystalline silicon oxide (μc-SiOx:H) is used, which is a phase mixture of μc-Si:H and hydrogenated amorphous silicon oxide (a-SiOx:H). The μc-Si:H phase is mainly affected by n-type doping and provides the channel for the electrical conductivity, while the a-SiOx:H phase is responsible for the transparency of the ﬁlm. In μc-SiOx:H deposition, there is a tradeoff between the transparency and the conductivity of the ﬁlm, which can be controlled by varying the CO2/SiH4 ratio. Replacing n-type a-Si:H by n-type μc- SiOx:H signiﬁcantly enhances the blue response and consequently improves the integrated Jsc, obtained from EQE, from 14.2 to 15.2 mA/cm2. Along with a Voc of 0.82 Vand FF of 73.7%, it leads to an overall efﬁciency of 9.2% for 0.126 cm2 area (Misra et al. 2015). The year by year evolution of radial junction thin-ﬁlm solar cell performances, built over plasma-assisted VLS-grown SiNWs (up to 2013), is plotted in Fig. 23. Different catalysts, used for the NW growth, are also indicated. The performances of solar cells increase every year with a clear trend towards values closing up to the records by a-Si:H or μc-Si:H thin-ﬁlm cells deposited on textured TCO substrates. Resonant Absorption in Radial Junction Units Though several recent works have addressed the light absorption by an array of Si nanowire/rods, the light in-coupling and absorption proﬁle in a more sophisticated and complex multilayer p-i-n thin ﬁlm solar cell structure, as well their implications for device performance, remain largely unexplored. Within a coaxial radial junction (RJ) thin ﬁlm solar cell, a sequence of layers of materials with distinctive optical properties are deposited around individual SiNW cores. In such a 1D cavity-like 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 913 composite, photonic and resonant mode-matching effects in the RJ units via optical antenna coupling or leaky-mode-resonance can play an important role in determining light absorption and scattering. How this resonant absorption or scattering will affect the light harvesting behavior in a coaxial p-i-n junction thin ﬁlm solar cell remains an interesting aspect to address. The goal is thus to establish a comprehensive optical model for a coaxially deployed multilayer radial junction thin ﬁlm solar cell, in order to develop critical clues and a new strategy for optimizing such devices. In order to model the resonant absorption in the individual NW solar cell, we consider a coaxial radial junction unit as illustrated in Fig. 24a. Figure 24b presents a SEM view of a single radial junction cell. To carry out an accurate simulation, the optical dispersion n-k curves of each material have been extracted from the modeling of spectroscopic ellipsometry measurements on co-deposited planar thin ﬁlms (Yu et al. 2014a). Assume that the SiNW core is represented by a cylinder of radius Rw = 20 nm and with lengths (Lw) from 0.6 μm to 2.4 μm. The intrinsic a-Si:H layer thickness (Ti) has been varied from 20 nm to 140 nm, while the thickness of the n-type a-Si:H layer and ITO layers are ﬁxed to have typical values of Tn = 10 nm and Tito = 50 nm, respectively. In this simulation, a single radial cell is placed at the center of a square simulation box (1.5 x 1.5 μm) on top of a glass substrate. Polarized light propagating along the y-axis originates from the top plane. Dissipative scatter- ing conditions are applied to the entirety of the wall and bottom boundaries. The ﬁnite element solver module in COMSOL MULTIPHYSICS was used to carry out the structural modeling and optical simulation. In the upper panel in Fig. 25a, the Ey-ﬁeld distribution in a single radial junction solar cell unit is shown, under different incident wavelengths of λ = 350 nm, 550 nm, and 750 nm, with a SiNW length of Lw = 1.7 μm and an i-layer thickness of Ti = 100 nm. At λ = 350 nm (high energy photons), the incident light is screened by the outer ITO and n-type emitter layers, with only a small fraction reaching the Fig. 23 Year by year evolution of plasma-assisted VLS-grown SiNW-based radial junction thin-ﬁlm solar cells. Different colors are used to differentiate the laboratories working on this topic. Triangles, circles, and inverted triangle represent the various low melting temperature metals (Sn, In, and Bi) used to mediate the growth. Solid symbol means the intrinsic layer is a-Si:H, while the hollow symbol represents μc-Si:H (Misra et al. 2014) 914 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas buried absorber i-layer. At longer wavelengths (λ = 550 nm to 750 nm), the incident light propagates deeper into the radial junction and can be better coupled into the cavity-like radial junction cell, which starts to behave particularly like a waveguide or antenna at λ = 750 nm. Based on these ﬁeld distribution results, the local power dissipation  that is the local absorption occurring within the radial junction multilayer  is calculated according to Pabs λ ð Þ ¼ cIlightα λ ð Þ ¼ cIlight4πk λ ð Þ=λ (3) where Ilight is the local electromagnetic energy intensity, c is the speed of light in vacuum, and α(λ) and k(λ) are the absorption coefﬁcient and the imaginary part of the complex refractive index n λ ð Þ ¼ n λ ð Þ þ ik λ ð Þ. The corresponding power absorption mappings in the radial junction cell structure are calculated and presented in Fig. 25b. The absorption of high energy photons (λ = 350 nm) mostly takes place within the outer ITO and n-type emitter layers, with little absorption occurring in the PV active inner intrinsic a-Si:H layer. At λ = 550 nm, the inner i-layer becomes the dominant zone for light harvesting, while the absorption in the c-SiNW core remains still very weak, in spite of a strong ﬁeld within the core region as seen in the corresponding Ey ﬁeld distribution in Fig. 25a. This is because at λ = 550 nm, the absorption coefﬁcient of a-Si:H is almost two orders of magnitude higher than that of c-Si (typically αa-Si/αc-Si 102). At even longer wavelengths of λ = 750 nm, the incident photon energy approaches the optical bandgap of the a-Si:H absorber and gets strongly conﬁned within the radial junction cell. However, the effective Fig. 24 (a) Schematic illustrating the coaxial multilayer structure of a radial junction solar cell unit; (b), (c), and (d) show, respectively, the SEM images of a single SiNW, a p-i-n RJ cell, and an ITO coated RJ cell (Yu et al. 2014a) (Copyright 2014 Nature Publishing Group) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 915 Fig. 25 (a) Upper panels show the simulated electrical ﬁeld distribution (Ey) through a single radial junction cell at different photon wavelengths, while the lower panels (b) present their corresponding absorption proﬁle within each material layer in the multilayer radial junction structure. (c) Solar-spectrum-weighted absorption distribution within the radial junction solar cell unit, over a spectrum through λ = 300 nm to 800 nm (Yu et al. 2014a) (Copyright 2014 Nature Publishing Group) 916 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas absorption realized within the intrinsic a-Si:H layer drops dramatically, while most incident photons get absorbed in the crystalline SiNW core, which is considered as a dead zone because of its high doping level. Close examination of the absorption mapping at λ = 550 nm shown in Fig. 25c reveals more intriguing features of the absorption proﬁle within a single radial junction cell. For example, the highest absorption regions in the i-layer are actually located very close to the inner i-layer/SiNW interface, as witnessed in the enlarged inset in Fig. 25b for λ = 550 nm, instead of at the outer emitter/i-layer interface, as one would expect in a planar p-i-n thin ﬁlm solar cell. Furthermore, to give a quantitative estimation of PV performance, a solar-spectrum-weighted absorption proﬁle Pav is calculated within a radial junction solar cell unit, as shown in Fig. 25c, deﬁned as Pav  ð Pabs λ ð Þ  WAM1:5 λ ð Þ  dλ, (4) where WAM1.5(λ) is the weighting factor derived from the standard AM1.5 solar mass spectrum with Ð WAM1.5(λ)dλ = 1 when integrating over λ = 300 nm to 800 nm (the most relevant spectrum range for a-Si:H absorption). It is clear that the absorption intensity proﬁle shows its highest absorption zones in the vicinity of the inner i-layer/ SiNW core interface, instead of the outer emitter/i-layer interface. This is strikingly different to the situation in planar p-i-n junction a-Si:H cells, where the highest absorption zones are always located at the outer emitter/i-layer interface, and therefore a p-type emitter layer is always preferable to shorten the collection distance of photo-generated holes. This ﬁnding reveals however that a higher concentration of photo-carriers is generated in close proximity to the inner interface, and thus a p-type SiNW core is favorable for the radial p-i-n junction solar cells. To understand the optical losses and effective absorption within the radial junction cell, the absorption broken down by different material layers is extracted and plotted in Fig. 26a, for a typical radial junction a-Si:H solar cell unit with Lw = 1.7 μm, Ti = 100 nm, and Wsub = 1.5 μm. It is clear that a majority of the short wavelength absorption losses are mainly caused by the outer ITO and doped a-Si:H layers, emphasizing the need to adopt a wider band-gap emitter layer of doped a-SiC or μc-SiOx. To the long wavelengths, the absorption in the i-layer drops rapidly when approaching the bandgap of a-Si:H. Figure 26b shows the absorption occurring in the i-layer as a percentage of the total absorption in the radial junction cell, for different i-layer thickness (Ti) ranging from 20 nm to 140 nm. It is interesting to see that a thicker i-layer can boost the light absorption for longer wavelengths λ  450 nm, but this tends to saturate for Ti 100 nm. Furthermore, the calculated absorption curves for different intrinsic layer thick- ness of Ti ranging from 20 nm to 140 nm are shown in Fig. 27a. To have a better view of the evolution of the absorption peaks with decreasing i-layer thickness, all these absorption curves are normalized to their maxima and shown in Fig. 27b. 2D mode analysis on the cross section of a coaxial radial junction cell with an i-layer thickness of Ti = 140 nm reveals that the highest contribution comes from a pair of 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 917 propagation modes with mutually orthogonal ﬁeld distribution patterns, one of which is shown in Fig. 27c. As it has been shown that, for this cavity mode, the ﬁeld distribution is concentrated in the annular i-layer, resulting in a maximal useful absorption in the radial junction cell. This resonant-mode-selection feature or crite- rion is indeed a unique aspect in the coaxial radial p-i-n cell, as compared to the situation in a simple radial p-n junction solar cell. Comparing the normalized Peff curves with different i-layer thickness of 80 nm (red), 100 nm (green), and 120 nm (blue) to the normalized experimental EQE spectrum (black), as seen in Fig. 28a, measured on a real radial junction cell array shown in the top-view SEM image of Fig. 28b, a nice agreement has been achieved between the simulated and experimental EQE curves in the short-wavelength range, from λ = 300 nm to 550 nm. At longer wavelengths, a higher EQE response was measured for the actual forest of radial junction solar cells, compared to the simulated response for a single radial junction solar cell. The enhancement ratio of the normalized experimental EQE over the absorption response of a single radial junction cell is plotted as a function of incident wavelength in Fig. 28d, which implies that the contribution of light trapping arising from multiple scattering events among individual radial junction units is indeed highly wavelength-dependent. This also provides an insightful and powerful tool to resolve the wavelength-dependent contributions arising from individual radial junction units and/or from strong light trapping due to the presence of the radial junction cell array. The Impact of Tilting on Radial Junction Performance Another fundamentally interesting as well practically important concern for building such a 3D radial p-i-n junction solar cells lies that mutual or self-shadowing becomes a quite common situation that would cause nonuniform photo-current generation among/or along the standing radial junction units, see the situation in the SEM image Fig. 26 (a) Absorbed power broken down by different material layers as a function of incident photon wavelength for a radial junction cell with SiNW length of Lw = 1.7 μm and i-layer thickness of Ti = 100 nm. (b) Percentage of effective absorption in the i-layer relative to total absorption in the radial junction multilayer structure (Yu et al. 2014a) (Copyright 2014 Nature Publishing Group) 918 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas of a random matrix of radial junction solar cells in Fig. 29a. This issue is absent or far less important in conventional planar solar cells, but has to be taken into account seriously in choosing a best trade off in the SiNW length design, particularly when one comes to construct radial junction solar cells over a random matrix of VLS-grown SiNWs on low cost glass substrates instead of periodic array of up-right standing Si nano-pillars. As seen in Fig. 29b, in spite of the distinctive geometric arrangement, the simulation based on a periodic array of up-right standing radial junction units has reproduced very well the overall trend of the EQE response measured experimentally. Comparing the simulated EQE responses of the radial junction thin ﬁlm solar cells to that of a planar reference (with the same absorber i-layer thickness), the contribution of an enhanced light trapping and absorption effect realized within a 3D architecture is indeed quite prominent, particularly to the long wavelength end. So, is it true that a tilting geometry among the radial junction matrix has little inﬂuence on the light harvesting 1.2x10-15 1.0x10-15 8.0x10-16 6.0x10-16 4.0x10-16 2.0x10-16 0.0 350 400 450 For SiNW cells with Lw=1.7 μm 500 Incident Wavelength (nm) Absorption Peff in i-layer (W) 550 600 650 700 750 800 350 Normalized Absorption in i-layer 400 450 500 Incident Wavelength (nm) 550 600 650 700 750 800 i-layer thickness Ti= 140 nm Ti= 120 nm Ti= 100 nm Ti= 80 nm Ti= 20 nm Ti= 140 nm With decrease of Ti 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 Ti= 120 nm Ti= 100 nm Ti= 80 nm Ti= 20 nm 1 Within i-layer Mode field |E| distribution in RJ with Ti=140 nm (relative intensity) 0 a b c Fig. 27 (a) Absorption spectra in active i-layer while varying i-layer thickness (Ti) from 20 nm to 140 nm, (b) full spectrum integrated absorption in i-layer as a function of Ti. (c) ﬁeld distribution of mode in the radial junction cross section with Ti = 140 nm (Yu et al. 2014a) (Copyright 2014 Nature Publishing Group) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 919 performance? How and to what extent this could be valid emerges as an intriguing question to explore. To shed light upon this aspect, it will be critical to gain a comprehensive understanding on how the incident light ﬁeld will incouple and propagate among a tilted array of radial junction units. This has been taken into account in a radial junction model conﬁguration demonstrated in Fig. 29c. It is important to note that in a tilted geometry, the polarization symmetry (valid for an up-right standing geom- etry) is broken. The absorption of high energy photons happens only superﬁcially at the outer shells (ITO and n + window layers), while longer wavelengths have deeper penetration depth into the radial junction units. The strongest absorption has been achieved at wavelengths from 550 nm to 600 nm, where the overlapping of the incident light ﬁeld and the absorption strength (which decreases monotonically with longer wavelengths) reach a best trade-off. Interestingly, regardless of the different incident wavelengths, the simulated light ﬁeld distributions, presented in Fig. 30, reveal an oblique propagation of the light ﬁeld along the tilted sideway among radial 350 1,0 0,8 0,6 0,4 0,2 0,0 350 400 450 40 30 20 10 0 60 Extracted i-layer thickness (nm) Counts 80 100 120 140 500 550 Wavelength (nm) EQE of RJ Cell with i-layer 100 nm Simulation weighted by size distribution 600 650 700 750 350 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 Absorption realized in single RJ Cell Contribution from light trapping 400 450 500 550 Wavelength (nm) Enhancement Ratio 600 650 700 750 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 400 450 500 Experimental EQE results on 100 nm i-layer RJ cells Ti=80 nm Ti=100 nm Ti=120 nm Wavelength (nm) Normalized EQE Spectra EQE Spectra 550 600 650 700 750 With tpo ITO contact a b d c Fig. 28 (a) Normalized experimental EQE spectrum (black square-line) measured for radial junction cells on VLS-grown SiNWs (example SEM image in (b)), compared to the normalized calculated absorption curves for Ti = 80 nm, 100 nm and 120 nm. (c) Normalized experimental EQE and averaged simulated absorption curves weighted according to their appearance statistics. (d) Spectrum of the absorption enhancement ratio observed for an array of radial junction cells (with strong light trapping effect) over that of a single radial junction cell, as extracted from (c) (Yu et al. 2014a) (Copyright 2014 Nature Publishing Group) 920 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas junction units. With the increase of the wavelength of incident photons, the propa- gation of light ﬁeld into the shadowed area becomes easier for both polarization situations. Looking at the absorption proﬁles in Fig. 31, it is easy to ﬁnd that the absorption intensity along a tilted radial junction unit is not uniform. Interestingly, the face- down back-halves (experience self-shadowing) seem to realize a higher absorption than that in the face-up front-halves. This is particularly true among the top segments of the radial junction cell units, while in the bottom segments the discrepancy becomes less prominent. Strikingly, in the lower segment of the radial junction unit, starting more or less from the middle, the back-half even out-performs its front-half counterpart. Taking a 5050 weighting average, it is clear that the absorp- tions realized in the front or the back halves of the radial junction units (among a matrix arrangement) are basically the same. In other words, the self-shadowing effect has only negligible inﬂuence for a tilting radial junction matrix, while a nonuniform absorption proﬁle does exist along the length of radial junction unit. ? P-doped SiNW core Intrinsic a-Si:H layer n+ window layer ITO top electrode 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 800 0 40 60 80 100 EQE Response (%) Wavelength (nm) Experimental EQE Simulated Radial Junction Simulated Planar Junction Z X Y TE mode 500 nm 20 a b c d Fig. 29 (a) SEM image of radial p-i-n junction a-Si:H thin ﬁlm solar cells constructed over randomly oriented VLS-grown SiNWs, with a schematic illustration of the multilayer structure with an ITO top contact presented in (c); (b) a comparison of the experimental EQE response (black) of the radial junction cells, as seen in (a), to the simulated EQE response of a periodic up-right standing radial junction arrays (red) and that of a planar reference with the same i-layer thickness (blue); (c) shows the deﬁnition of the incident polarization situation as a TE mode or a TM mode with the E ﬁeld component being aligned with the x-axis or the y-axis, respectively; (d) displays the different geometric conﬁgurations of an upright standing radial junction matrix and that of an aperiodic random one (Lu et al. 2015) (Copyright 2015 Optical Society of America) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 921 This also indicates an important aspect to be taken into account in the design of the radial junction solar cells, where a photo-current generation gradient could impose a limit for achieving a high Fill Factor and voltage output. In Fig. 31c, d, the EQE responses of a tilted radial junction matrix with different density (or spatial separation) are calculated, under different angle of θ = 0, 15o, 30o, and the EQE curves are obtained with 5050 weighting for TE and TM incidences. Interestingly, for a dense radial junction matrix, with a radial junction unit separation of W = 800 nm = 0.4 LRJ (corresponding to an areal density of 2  108/cm2), it has been found that the tilting angle has basically negligible inﬂuence on the overall absorption performance, as witnessed in Fig. 31c. However, the tilting effect man- ifests itself in a sparser matrix (with W = 1600 nm = 0.8 LRJ), as seen in Fig. 31d, where a tilting angle from 15 to 30 seems to have a broader absorption compared to that of up-right standing situation. Meanwhile, resonant absorption peaks emerge at wavelengths of 550 nm, 650 nm, and 725 nm for the up-right standing radial junction Fig. 30 The incident light ﬁeld distributions and their corresponding absorption proﬁles realized within a tilted (30 Degree) array of radial junction units at different incident wavelengths under TM mode polarized incidence are presented in (ac) and (df), respectively (Lu et al. 2015) (Copyright 2015 Optical Society of America) 922 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas units, as marked by three arrows in Fig. 31d, while these signals quickly disappear or displace under tilting angles. Therefore, as long as the radial junction matrix is dense enough, probably within the range of effective absorption cross-section of individual radial junction units, a tilting angle by itself is not a critical parameter. This ﬁnding paves the way for adopting a properly controlled random matrix of VLS-grown SiNWs as the framework in pursuit of high performance radial junction thin ﬁlm solar cells. Towards High Performance Radial Tandem Junction Solar Cells Silicon thin ﬁlm solar cells are low cost, light weight, and environment-friendly technology, with no fundamental limitation in material supply to reach a Tera-Watt scale deployment. However, in competition with other thin ﬁlm technologies based on CIGS or CdTe material compounds, a higher conversion efﬁciency is deﬁnitely needed to revive the Si-based thin ﬁlm technology to make it more competitive for 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 800 0 20 40 60 80 100 Normalized EQE response(%) Wavelength(nm) Tilting angle of 0 Degree 15 Degree 30 Degree 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 750 800 0 20 40 60 80 100 Tilting angle of 0 Degree 15 Degree 30 Degree Normalized EQE response(%) Wavelength(nm) 0 500 1000 1500 2000 10 4 TE mode absorption(W/m3) TE mode absorption(W/m3) Length measured from the bottom (nm) Abs in front-half Abs in back-half W=0.4L TE mode 0 500 1000 1500 2000 10 4 Abs in front-half Abs in back-half Length measured from the bottom (nm) W=0.8L a b c d Fig. 31 (a) and (b) present the distribution of absorption intensity realized within the face-up front- half and the face-down back-half of the tilted radial junction cells, along the length measured from the bottom, under TE mode incidence, respectively; (c) and (d) show the normalized EQE responses (with 5050% TE and TM mode weighted) with a tilting angle = 0, 15, 30, with an intercell spacing of W = 0.4 L and W = 0.8 L, respectively, where L stands for the length of the radial junction cell (Copyright 2015 Optical Society of America) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 923 photovoltaics. In order to broaden the spectral response and achieve a higher voltage output, a stacking of tandem a-Si:H PIN junction (with a bandgap of Eg 1.7 eV) over another nanocrystalline Si (nc-Si:H, with a bandgap of Eg1.1 eV) has been adopted in planar Si thin ﬁlm solar cells, which has achieved an efﬁciency of 12.3% with a Jsc = 12.9 mA/cm2. However, this advanced tandem radial junction (TRJ) concept has not yet been explored, either theoretically or experimentally, apparently due to a lacking of a fundamental understanding and the assessment tool for seeking an optimal 3D tandem design. In order to address a more sophisticated TRJ conﬁguration, a theoretical descrip- tion of radial single junction array solar cells will be established, emphasizing the beneﬁt of adopting a wide band gap μc- SiOx :H window layer and identifying the potential improvement at long wavelengths (550 nm). Then, based on a solid experimental basis, the potential of a tandem radial junction cell, as illustrated in Fig. 32c, will be addressed by examining the contributions of resonance mode absorption and the potential of maximal power extraction under a constraint of balanced photo-current generation in the outer and inner PIN junctions. As seen in the current-density voltage curves of two single radial junction (SRJ) solar cells, measured under standard AM1.5G illumination (Newports Solar Simulator) at 25 C and shown in Fig. 32a, a rather high open circuit voltage approaching Voc = 0.9 V (the red curve in Fig. 32a) has been achieved in the single radial junction cells, thanks to the adoption of a wide bandgap μc-SiOx :H window layer. This is indeed a remarkable value achieved over a 3D nanostructure complex even compared with the state-of-the-art planar junction counterpart. The best external quantum efﬁciency (EQE) recorded among the SRJ cells is presented in Fig. 32b (corresponding to the black J-V curve in 32a), which according to a solar-spectrum- weighted integral gives a high short-circuit current density of Jsc = 15.2 mA/cm2. So far, the highest power conversion potential achieved here is 9.2%, with a Voc, Fill- Factor (FF) of 0.82 V and 73.7%, respectively, for a cell area of 0.126 cm2. As shown in Fig. 32b, the EQE responses of the experimental SRJ cells can be well reproduced at short wavelengths below λ  550 nm. Comparing the simulations to the experimental results within this range, an n-type μc-SiOx :H window layer thickness of 15 nm provides a better ﬁt to the experimental data (the black curve) than a thinner layer of 10 nm (that is actually the targeted μc-SiOx :H layer thickness in our experiment control). Though the experimental EQE response demonstrates an enhanced absorption into the long wavelengths, there is still plenty of room (at least 2 mA/cm2) for improvement compared to periodic array of radial junction units. It is remarkable that the absorption performance is not very sensitive to the randomness of the fabricated SiNW matrix, a desired feature for a robust radial junction fabrication. On the other hand, the modeling also helps to reveal the unique light-incoupling behavior into the cavity-like SRJ cell units and identify the critical parameters that have large impacts on the radial junction cell performance. For example, the incident light ﬁeld (Ey component) distributions and corresponding absorption (jIabsj) proﬁles realized within a single radial junction are presented in the upper-row of Fig. 33a in three face-to-face pairs corresponding to different incident wavelengths at 350 nm, 924 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas 600 nm, and 800 nm (from left to right), respectively. It is interesting to see that the penetration of the incident light ﬁeld into both the radial junction structure is highly wavelength dependent: For the short wavelengths at 350 nm, the absorption is rather superﬁcial as the incident light ﬁeld has been largely screened by the outer ITO/n-type emitter shell. To longer wavelengths at λ = 600 nm, the incident light ﬁeld propagates much deeper into the a-Si:H absorber in radial junction, beneﬁting from a strong resonant-mode-enhanced incoupling into such a quasi-1D radial junction antenna. At λ = 800 nm, it is clear that the a-Si:H layer in SRJ unit can hardly harness the lower energy photons because of the wide bandgap of the a-Si:H absorber. In pursuit of higher performance, a tandem PIN junction conﬁguration represents a promising approach to achieve a wider EQE spectrum response and a higher Voc output. Figure 32c shows the schematic diagrams of a tandem radial junction solar cell under consideration, where the outer a-Si:H or the inner nc-Si:H absorber layers Fig. 32 (a) J-V curves of the single radial junction solar cells fabricated over a VLS-grown SiNWs matrix, with corresponding SEM image and structural illustration displayed in the top-left inset; (b) experimental and calculated EQE curves of the single radial junction units with two n-type μc- SiOx : H window layer thicknesses; (c) shows a schematic of the NW arrangement used in the modeling of a periodic matrix of single radial junction or tandem radial junction solar cells. Taking into account the periodicity and reﬂection symmetries, the overall calculation can be reduced into a quarter volume of the simulation box (Copyright 2015 AIP Publishing LLC) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 925 have an optical bandgap of Ea g ¼ 1:7 eV and Enc g ¼ 1:1 eV , respectively. The thicknesses of the n+/p+ tunneling junction, the outer μc- SiOx :H, and the ITO outer layers are ﬁxed to be 30 nm, 15 nm, and 70 nm, respectively. The light ﬁeld incoupling into a matrix of TRJ structure, under different wavelengths, is presented in the lower panels displayed in Fig. 33b. Compared to the SRJ situation, both the outer a-Si:H and the inner nc-Si:H layers in a TRJ conﬁguration participate in the light absorption with an absorption proﬁle mostly concentrating in the top segment. Remarkably, when the outer a-Si:H matrix allows an easy penetration of the incident light ﬁeld (at longer wavelengths λ = 800 nm) to reach the inner PIN layer, the absorption in the nc-Si:H absorber is maximized with a quite uniform distribution along the length of the tandem radial junction unit. This has enabled a broader spectrum response in the TRJ thin ﬁlm solar cell, extending further into the near- infrared wavelengths. In Fig. 34b, the absorption percentages of each material layers in a TRJ thin ﬁlm solar cells are presented. Their thickness has been optimized to maximize the photo-current output, while keeping a balanced photo-current gener- ation within the inner and the outer p-i-n junctions. This is a critical aspect that has to be taken into account a priori in tandem solar cell design. The EQE responses realized within tandem planar and radial junction solar cells are presented in Fig. 34cd, respectively, with corresponding short-circuit current 0 W/m3 5X103W/m3 @ λ = 350 nm @ λ = 600 nm @ λ = 800 nm -1 V/m Electric field |Ey| (left panels) 1 V/m (a) |Ey| distribution on the left and |Iabs| profile on the right for Single Junction (b) |Ey| distribution on the left and |Iabs| profile on the right for Tandem Junction Absorption power density |Iabs| (right panels) |Ey| |Iabs| |Ey| |Iabs| Fig. 33 (a) and (b) showcase the light ﬁeld Ey distributions and corresponding absorption (|Iabs|) proﬁles realized within a single radial junction (SRJ) or tandem radial junction (TRJ) solar cell unit, respectively, under different incident wavelengths of 350 nm, 600 nm, and 800 nm (from left to right), where in each face-to-face pair, the electric ﬁeld component |Ey| (or the absorption power density |Iabs|) is displayed in the left (or the right) panel (Copyright 2015 AIP Publishing LLC) 926 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 1100 0 20 40 60 80 100 EQE(%) Wavelength(nm) a-Si:H cell nc-Si:H cell tandem cell Reflection Jsc = 13.74mA/cm2 Jsc = 13.52mA/cm2 0 20 40 60 80 100 Reflection (%) 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 1100 0 20 40 60 80 100 EQE(%) Wavelength(nm) a-Si:H cell nc-Si:H cell tandem cell reflection Jsc = 14.20mA/cm2 Jsc = 14.20mA/cm2 0 20 40 60 80 100 Reflection (%) 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 1100 0 20 40 60 80 100 Absorption(%) Wavelength(nm) a-Si:H nc-Si:H mc-SiOx:H ITO c-Si With 100nm a-Si:H With 120 nm nc-Si:H and 75nm a-Si:H 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000 1100 0 20 40 60 80 100 Absorption(%) Wavelength(nm) a-Si:H mc-SiOx:H ITO c-Si a b c d Fig. 34 (a) and (b) provide the absorption percentages in different material layers in a single or a tandem radial junction solar cell, respectively; (c) and (d) show the EQE responses achieved in a planar or a tandem solar cell, respectively, while the red curves indicate their corresponding reﬂection spectra, the structural illustration of a planar tandem solar cell is displayed in the inset of (c) (Copyright 2015 AIP Publishing LLC) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 927 densities Jsc also calculated. After parametric optimizations for a maximal bal- anced photo-current generation, it has been found that the TRJ has the potential to deliver a balanced photo-current density of JRTJ sc ¼ 14:2 mA=cm2 , as seen in Fig. 34d, with a radially coated a-Si:H layer and nc-Si:H layer thicknesses of 75 nm and 120 nm, respectively, upon SiNW cores of 2 μm long. This compares favorably with that achieved by a planar tandem solar cell, where Jplanar sc ¼ 13:7 mA=cm2 necessitates a very thick nc-Si:H layer of 10 μm in the bottom junction. Indeed, as explained in Chap. 22, Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film, the deposition of high quality nc-Si:H bottom layer of such thickness is the most time-consuming and costly step in Si thin ﬁlm tandem solar cells fabrication. An aggressive reduction of the expensive bottom nc-Si:H absorber from 13 μm in planar tandem cells to only 120 nm in radial tandem solar cells implies thus a huge cost reduction and time-saving, which are critical considerations for industry- viable thin ﬁlm photovoltaics. Conclusion In summary, the introduction of nanostructured Si building blocks into photovoltaics has inspired and enabled a wide range of exciting new opportunities and design principles to address the major challenges in developing a new generation of high performance low cost solar cell applications. The nanostructured nature of pm-Si:H has allowed to improve the electronic properties of the material, and it should allow for 12% stabilized single junction solar cells. However, this material still suffers from light induced degradation. This can be solved by using radial junction solar cells. Indeed, radial junction thin ﬁlm solar cells, based on a plasma-assisted low temperature VLS growth of Si nanowires, hold a strong promise to establish a new generation of high efﬁciency thin ﬁlm solar cells, thanks to a series of breakthroughs over the last decade in nanostructure manufacturing, self-assembly growth control, and innovative material engineering. Targeting at a scalable and competitive photo- voltaic application, the development and implementation of new understandings and technologies, which may involve advanced nanophotonic design, efﬁcient surface passivation and multibandgap radial junction, are crucial. Given the large unexplored potential of the nanostructured radial junction Si solar cells, it is widely believed that there is still plenty of room for the radial junction approach to boost the performance further and become eventually one of a revolutionary mainstream photovoltaic technologies. Cross-References Growth of Crystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: Mono-Like Method Growth of Multicrystalline Silicon for Solar Cells: The High-Performance Casting Method 928 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas Hydrogenated Amorphous Silicon Thin Film Hydrogenated Microcrystalline Silicon Thin Films Polycrystalline Silicon Thin Film Polysilicon and Its Characterization Methods Wafer Cleaning, Etching, and Texturization References S. Abolmasov, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, P. Chatterjee, EPJ Photovoltaics 7, 70302 (2016) M. Adachi, M. Anantram, K. Karim, Sci. Rep. 3, 1546 (2013) P.-J. Alet, L. Yu, G. Patriarche, S. Palacin, P.R.i. Cabarrocas, J. Mater. Chem. 18, 51875189 (2008) J. Ball, L. Bowen, B.G. Mendis, H.S. Reehal, CrystEngComm 15, 38083815 (2013) C. Battaglia, C.-M. Hsu, K. Söderström, J. Escarré, F.-J. Haug, M. Charrière, M. Boccard, M. Despeisse, D.T.L. Alexander, M. Cantoni, Y. Cui, C. Ballif, ACS Nano 6, 27902797 (2012) G. Brönstrup, N. Jahr, C. Leiterer, A. Csáki, W. Fritzsche, S. Christiansen, ACS Nano 4, 71137122 (2010) L. Cao, P. Fan, A.P. Vasudev, J.S. White, Z. Yu, W. Cai, J.A. Schuller, S. Fan, M.L. Brongersma, Nano Lett. 10, 439445 (2010) N. Chaabane, V. Suendo, H. Vach, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 203111 (2006) W. Chen, H. Ahmed, Appl. Phys. Lett. 63, 11161118 (1993) W. Chen, V.G. Dubrovskii, X. Liu, T. Xu, R. Lardé, J.P. Nys, B. Grandidier, D. Stiévenard, G. Patriarche, P. Pareige, J. Appl. Phys. 111, 094909 (2012) W. Chen, L. Yu, S. Misra, Z. Fan, P. Pareige, G. Patriarche, S. Bouchoule, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Nat. Commun. 5, 4134 (2014) J. Cho, B. ODonnell, L. Yu, K.-H. Kim, I. Ngo, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 21, 77 (2013) W.K. Choi, T.H. Liew, M.K. Dawood, H.I. Smith, C.V. Thompson, M.H. Hong, Nano Lett. 8, 37993802 (2008) A. Fejfar, M. Hývl, M. Ledinský, A. Vetushka, J. Stuchlík, J. Kočka, S. Misra, B. ODonnell, M. Foldyna, L. Yu, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 119, 228234 (2013) M. Foldyna, L. Yu, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 117, 645651 (2013) E. Garnett, P. Yang, Nano Lett. 10, 10821087 (2010) E.C. Garnett, Y.C. Tseng, D.R. Khanal, J. Wu, J. Bokor, P. Yang, Nat. Nanotechnol. 4, 311314 (2009) M. Gharghi, E. Fathi, B. Kante, S. Sivoththaman, X. Zhang, Nano Lett. 12, 62786282 (2012) M.S. Gudiksen, L.J. Lauhon, J. Wang, D.C. Smith, C.M. Lieber, Nature 415, 617620 (2002) E. Hamers, A. Fontcuberta i Morral, C. Niikura, R. Brenot, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, J. Appl. Phys. 88, 36743688 (2000) C.-M. Hsu, S.T. Connor, M.X. Tang, Y. Cui, Appl. Phys. Lett. 93, 133109 (2008) Y.-F. Huang, S. Chattopadhyay, Y.-J. Jen, C.-Y. Peng, T.-A. Liu, Y.-K. Hsu, C.-L. Pan, H.-C. Lo, C.- H. Hsu, Y.-H. Chang, C.-S. Lee, K.-H. Chen, L.-C. Chen, Nat Nanotechnol 2, 770774 (2007a) Z. Huang, H. Fang, J. Zhu, Adv. Mater. 19, 744748 (2007b) O. Isabella, A.H.M. Smets, M. Zeman, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 129, 8289 (2014) P.D. Kanungo, N. Zakharov, J. Bauer, O. Breitenstein, P. Werner, U. Goesele, Appl. Phys. Lett. 92, 263107 (2008) K.-H. Kim, E.V. Johnson, A.G. Kazanskii, M.V. Khenkin, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Sci. Rep. 7, 40553 (2017) J. Kleider, C. Longeaud, M. Gauthier, M. Meaudre, R. Meaudre, R. Butté, S. Vignoli, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Appl. Phys. Lett. 75, 33513353 (1999) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 929 P. Krogstrup, H.I. Jorgensen, M. Heiss, O. Demichel, J.V. Holm, M. Aagesen, J. Nygard, A. Fontcuberta i Morral, Nat Photonics 7, 306310 (2013) C. Longeaud, J. Kleider, M. Gauthier, R. Brtiggemann, Y. Poissant, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, MRS Online Proc. Libr. Arch. 557, 1 (1999) Y. Lu, A. Lal, Nano Lett. 10, 46514656 (2010) J. Lu, S. Qian, Z. Yu, S. Misra, L. Yu, J. Xu, Y. Shi, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, K. Chen, Opt. Express 23, A1288A1296 (2015) S. Misra, L. Yu, W. Chen, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, J. Phys. Chem. C 117, 1778617790 (2013a) S. Misra, L. Yu, M. Foldyna, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 118, 9095 (2013b) S. Misra, L. Yu, W. Chen, M. Foldyna, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, J. Phys. D. Appl. Phys. 47, 393001 (2014) S. Misra, L. Yu, M. Foldyna, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, IEEE Journal of. Photovoltaics 5, 4045 (2015) V.A. Nebolsin, A.A. Shchetinin, Inorg. Mater. 39, 899903 (2003) B. ODonnell, L. Yu, M. Foldyna, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 358, 22992302 (2012) M.C. Putnam, S.W. Boettcher, M.D. Kelzenberg, D.B. Turner-Evans, J.M. Spurgeon, E.L. Warren, R.M. Briggs, N.S. Lewis, H.A. Atwater, Energy Environ. Sci. 3, 10371041 (2010) S. Qian, S. Misra, J. Lu, Z. Yu, L. Yu, J. Xu, J. Wang, L. Xu, Y. Shi, K. Chen, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Appl. Phys. Lett. 107, 043902 (2015) B.M. Rey, R. Elnathan, D. Ran, K. Geisel, M. Zanini, M.A. Fernandezrodriguez, V.V. Naik, A. Frutiger, W. Richtering, T. Ellenbogen, Nano Lett. 16, 157 (2015) P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Physics and Technology of Amorphous-Crystalline Heterostructure Silicon Solar Cells, Engineering Materials (Springer, Berlin, 2011), p. 131 P. Roca i Cabarrocas, T. Nguyen-Tran, Y. Djeridane, A. Abramov, E. Johnson, G. Patriarche, J. Phys. D. Appl. Phys. 40, 2258 (2007) E.A. Schiff, J. Non-Cryst. Solids 352, 10871092 (2006) V. Schmidt, J.V. Wittemann, S. Senz, U. Gosele, Adv. Mater. 21, 26812702 (2009) V. Schmidt, J.V. Wittemann, U. Gösele, Chem. Rev. 110, 361388 (2010) W. Shockley, W.T. Read, Phys. Rev. 87, 835842 (1952) R.A. Street, P. Qi, R. Lujan, W.S. Wong, Appl. Phys. Lett. 93, 163109163103 (2008) R.A. Street, W.S. Wong, C. Paulson, Nano Lett. 9, 34943497 (2009) B. Tian, X. Zheng, T.J. Kempa, Y. Fang, N. Yu, G. Yu, J. Huang, C.M. Lieber, Nature 449, 885889 (2007) M.M.J.W. van Herpen, D.J.W. Klunder, W.A. Soer, R. Moors, V. Banine, Chem. Phys. Lett. 484, 197199 (2010) R.S. Wagner, W.C. Ellis, Appl. Phys. Lett. 4, 89 (1964) J. Wang, L. Yu, S. Abolmasov, K.H. Kim, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, J. Appl. Phys. 111, 053108 (2012) X. Xie, X. Zeng, P. Yang, H. Li, J. Li, X. Zhang, Q. Wang, Phys. Status Solidi 210, 341344 (2013) E. Yablonovitch, G.D. Cody, IEEE Trans. Electron Devices 29, 300305 (1982) L. Yu, P.-J. Alet, G. Picardi, I. Maurin, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Nanotechnology 19, 485605 (2008) L. Yu, B. ODonnell, P.-J. Alet, S. Conesa-Boj, F. Peiro, J. Arbiol, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Nano- technology 20, 225604 (2009) L. Yu, B. ODonnell, P.-J. Alet, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 94, 18551859 (2010a) L. Yu, B. ODonnell, J.-L. Maurice, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Appl. Phys. Lett. 97, 023107023103 (2010b) L. Yu, F. Fortuna, B. ODonnell, G. Patriache, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Appl. Phys. Lett. 98, 123113 (2011) L. Yu, F. Fortuna, B. ODonnell, T. Jeon, M. Foldyna, G. Picardi, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Nano Lett. 12, 41534158 (2012a) L. Yu, B. ODonnell, M. Foldyna, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Nanotechnology 23, 194011 (2012b) 930 L. Yu and P. Roca i Cabarrocas L. Yu, L. Rigutti, M. Tchernycheva, S. Misra, M. Foldyna, G. Picardi, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Nanotechnology 24, 275401 (2013) L. Yu, S. Misra, J. Wang, S. Qian, M. Foldyna, J. Xu, Y. Shi, E. Johnson, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Sci. Rep. 4, 4357 (2014a) L. Yu, M. Xu, J. Xu, Z. Xue, Z. Fan, G. Picardi, F. Fortuna, J. Wang, J. Xu, Y. Shi, K. Chen, P.R.i. Cabarrocas, Nano Lett. 14, 64696474 (2014b) Z. Yu, J. Lu, S. Qian, S. Misra, L. Yu, J. Xu, L. Xu, J. Wang, Y. Shi, K. Chen, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, Appl. Phys. Lett. 107, 163105 (2015) I. Zardo, L. Yu, S. Conesa-Boj, S. Estrade, P.J. Alet, J. Rossler, M. Frimmer, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, F. Peiro, J. Arbiol, J.R. Morante, A. Fontcuberta i Morral, Nanotechnology 20, 155602 (2009) I. Zardo, S. Conesa-Boj, S. Estradé, L. Yu, F. Peiro, P. Roca i Cabarrocas, J.R. Morante, J. Arbiol, A. Fontcuberta i Morral, Appl. Phys. A Mater. Sci. Process. 100, 287296 (2010) J. Zhu, Z. Yu, G.F. Burkhard, C.-M. Hsu, S.T. Connor, Y. Xu, Q. Wang, M. McGehee, S. Fan, Y. Cui, Nano Lett. 9, 279282 (2008) 25 Polymorphous Nano-Si and Radial Junction Solar Cells 931 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells 26 Shuangyi Zhao and Xiaodong Pi Contents Introduction ...................................................................................... 934 Preparation ....................................................................................... 934 Electronic and Optical Properties ............................................................... 936 Electronic Properties ......................................................................... 936 Optical Properties ............................................................................ 937 Photovoltaic Applications ....................................................................... 937 Si-Wafer-Based Solar Cells .................................................................. 937 Si QDs and Organic Solar Cells ............................................................. 939 Summary ......................................................................................... 954 References ....................................................................................... 956 Abstract Colloidal silicon quantum dots (Si QDs) that are usually no more than 10 nm large crystalline Si nanoparticles dispersed in solvent have been attracting great attention largely due to their remarkable electronic and optical properties and ﬂexible incorporation into device structures. In this work we begin with the introduction to the preparation of colloidal Si QDs. The electronic and optical properties of both undoped and doped Si QDs are then discussed. The use of colloidal Si QDs in Si-wafer-based solar cells and all kinds of hybrid solar cells is reviewed in detail. We brieﬂy present the outlook of the development of colloidal Si QDs for solar cells in the end. Keywords Colloidal  Silicon quantum dots  Solar cells S. Zhao  X. Pi (*) State Key Laboratory of Silicon Materials and School of Materials Science and Engineering, Zhejiang University, Zhejiang, Hangzhou, China e-mail: shyzhao@zju.edu.cn; xdpi@zju.edu.cn  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1_36 933 Introduction Colloidal silicon quantum dots (Si QDs) have attracted considerable interest for a wide range of applications including photovoltaics (Kortshagen et al. 2016; Reiss et al. 2016; Mangolini and Vac 2013; Dohnalová et al. 2014; McVey and Tilley 2014; Ni et al. 2015). Si QDs may exhibit novel electronic and optical properties that traditional Si materials do not possess (Fujii et al. 1998; Mangolini and Kortshagen 2007; Pi et al. 2007, 2008; Anthony and Kortshagen 2009; Gresback et al. 2013; Yu et al. 2016). The QD size, surface state, and doping all play important roles in the tuning of the electronic and optical properties of Si QDs (Gresback et al. 2013; Kortshagen 2009; Lopez and Mangolini 2014; Hua et al. 2005; Jurbergs et al. 2006; Sangghaleh et al. 2015; Kelly et al. 2011; Dasog et al. 2013), for example, the bandgap of Si QDs may be facilely tuned by the QD size given the quantum conﬁnement effect (van Buuren et al. 1998; Bostedt et al. 2004). Ligands attached to the surface of Si QDs not only render the dispersibility of Si QDs in solvents (Wheeler et al. 2015; Yang et al. 2014; Botas et al. 2014; Buriak 2013; Anoop Gupta and Wiggers 2009; Nelles et al. 2007) but also change the color of the light emission from Si QDs (Mangolini 2014; Hua et al. 2005; Jurbergs et al. 2006: Sangghaleh et al. 2015; Kelly et al. 2010, 2011; Dasog et al. 2013; Purkait et al. 2014; Boukherroub et al. 2011). Heavy doping can extend the optical absorption of Si QDs from the conventional ultraviolet and visible regions to the mid-infrared region (Zhou et al. 2015, 2016; Ni et al. 2016). A series of methods have been developed to produce colloidal Si QDs (Park et al. 2001; Zacharias et al. 2002; Belomoinet al. 2002; Fujii et al. 2004; Kheliﬁet al. 2013; Pettigrew et al. 2003; Hryciw et al. 2005; Sychugov et al. 2012; Wolkin et al. 1999; Sandu et al. 2007; Švrček et al. 2002; Nayfeh et al. 2004; Bley and Kauzlarich 1996; Warner et al. 2005; Sugimoto et al. 2012; Kelly et al. 2010). Up to now, freestanding Si QDs have been the most conveniently synthesized by gas-phase approaches such as thermal heating (Ostraat et al. 2001), laser ablation (Li et al. 2003), and plasma (Mangolini et al. 2005; Knipping et al. 2004; Sankaran et al. 2005). Among these gas-phase approaches, the nonthermal plasma synthesis of Si QDs has a series of advantages such as excellent size control, high production yield, and good ﬂexibility in tuning surface chemistry (Pi et al. 2014). Therefore, we will focus on the preparation of colloidal Si QDs by the nonthermal plasma synthesis and subsequent surface modiﬁcation. After a brief introduction to the electronic and optical properties of Si QDs, we will discuss the use of colloidal Si QDs in solar cell structures in detail. Preparation Silane (SiH4) is the routine precursor for the synthesis of Si QDs in nonthermal plasma. The decomposition of silane in nonthermal plasma leads to the formation of Si radicals, which nucleate and then grow to form Si QDs. Since electrons are the most mobile species in nonthermal plasma, Si QDs are usually negatively charged. 934 S. Zhao and X. Pi This unipolar charging helps avoid or reduce QD agglomeration, giving rise to relatively narrow QD size distribution. Negatively charged Si QDs may be effec- tively repelled by strong electric ﬁeld in the space charge sheath region of nonther- mal plasma. Therefore, the diffusion loss of Si QDs to the reactor wall of nonthermal plasma is minimized. The production yield of Si QDs can be rather high. The contamination of Si QDs produced in silane-based nonthermal plasma is negligible. There may be only hydrogen at the QD surface to passivate Si dangling bonds. This greatly facilitates the surface modiﬁcation of Si QDs. B- or P-doped Si QDs may be synthesized by incorporating diborane (B2H6) or phosphine (PH3) into silane-based nonthermal plasma. The size and crystallinity of Si QDs can be hardly affected by the doping. The doping level of Si QDs may be tuned in a wide range. Figure 1 shows the typical results of transmission electron microscopy (TEM) image of undoped and B-doped Si QDs. Low-resolution TEM images demonstrate that sphere-like Si quantum dots are synthesized whether they are undoped or doped (Ni et al. 2016). Both undoped and doped Si QDs are highly crystalline. Their size distributions are relatively narrow. It has been recently discovered that B doping or B/P codoping enables the good dispersion of Si QDs in polar solvents such as ethanol and benzonitrile. This is largely due to the negative potential produced by ionized B atoms at the surface/ subsurface of doped Si QDs (Zhou et al. 2016). In contrast, undoped Si QDs cannot be well dispersed in common solvents. This limits the processing of undoped Si QDs. Hydrosilylation has been adopted to replace H atoms at the surface of undoped a b d e 20 nm 20 nm 2 nm 2 nm 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 1.2 1.6 2.0 2.4 2.8 3.2 3.6 1.2 1.6 2.0 2.4 2.8 3.2 3.6 Diameter (nm) Frequency (%) Frequency (%) Diameter (nm) c f Fig. 1 TEM results of undoped and 17% B-doped Si QDs with the mean size of 2.4 nm. (a) Low-resolution TEM image of undoped Si QDs. The inset shows the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) (b) High-resolution TEM image of undoped Si QDs. (c) Size distribution of undoped Si QDs with a log-normal ﬁt. (d) Low-resolution TEM image of 17% B-doped Si QDs. The inset shows the selected area electron diffraction (SAED) (e) High-resolution TEM image of 17% B-doped Si QDs. (f) Size distribution of 17% B-doped Si QDs with a log-normal ﬁt (Reprinted with permission from Ni et al. 2016, Copyright 2016 John Wiley and Sons) 26 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells 935 Si QDs with organic ligands, facilitating the dispersion of undoped Si QDs in solvents (Pi et al. 2014). Figure 2 schematically shows the process of the 1-dodecence hydrosilylation of an undoped Si QD. When Si QDs are well dispersed in solvents, colloidal Si QDs are obtained. Electronic and Optical Properties Electronic Properties Since the Bohr radius of an exciton in Si is 5 nm, the size regions of 5 and 510 nm approximately correspond to the strong quantum conﬁnement and weak quantum conﬁnement for Si QDs, respectively. The quantum conﬁnement results in the enlargement of the bandgap (Eg) of Si QDs. It has been shown that the quantum- conﬁnement effect of Si QDs renders the following relationship between Eg and d (QD size): Eg ¼ E0 þ Ad2 þ Bd1 where E0 is the bandgap of bulk Si (1.12 eV), A is 2.56 eV nm2, and B is 0.83 eV nm1 (Liu et al. 2015). Clearly, the bandgap of Si QDs increases with the decrease of the QD size. The surface of Si QDs may also impact the electronic properties. For example, a dangling bond at the surface of a Si QD introduces a defect energy level in the bandgap of the Si QD. Hence, the light emission of Si QDs is usually quenched by the dangling bonds at the QD surface (Lu et al. 2016). Ligands at the surface of Si QDs are mainly employed to make Si QDs soluble in solvents. However, certain ligands can modify the electronic structures of Si QDs. Veinot et al. have recently demonstrated that ligands containing amine, phosphine, and acetal functional groups cause the bandgap of Si QD to change (Dasog et al. 2014). Doping is an added means to tune the electronic properties of Si QDs (Ma et al. 2011; Pi et al. 2011; Hori et al. 2016). Dopants such as B and P introduce energy levels in the bandgap of Si QDs. The bandgap of Si QDs may change after doping. Fig. 2 Schematic of the hydrosilylation of hydrogen-passivated Si QDs by using 1-dodecence (Reprinted with permission from Pi et al. 2014, Copyright 2014 John Wiley and Sons) 936 S. Zhao and X. Pi Optical Properties In most cases, Si QDs effectively absorb light in the short-wavelength (e.g., 500 nm) region and emit light in the long-wavelength (6001,000 nm) region (Liu et al. 2015; Hessel et al. 2012), as exemplarily shown in Figure 3. Since the bandgap of Si QDs increases with the decrease of the QD size (van Buuren et al. 1998; Bostedt et al. 2004), both the absorption onset and light emission move to the shorter-wavelength region as the QD size decreases (Gresback et al. 2013; Pi et al. 2012). It is interesting that dopants may introduce radiative energy levels in the bandgap of Si QDs (Ni et al. 2016). Xu et al. (Lu et al. 2016) observed light emission at the wavelength of 1,300 nm form P-doped ultra-small (2 nm) Si QDs. It was believed that this subband light emission resulted from the P-introduced energy level in the bandgap of Si QDs. Heavy doping may lead to band-tail states for Si QDs. The band- tail states actually help extend the absorption of Si QDs to the near-infrared region (Zhou et al. 2016; Ni et al. 2016). Localized surface plasmon resonance (LSPR) can make both B- and P-doped Si QDs efﬁciently absorb mid-infrared light (Zhou et al. 2015; Ni et al. 2016). Figure 4 representatively shows the mid-infrared absorption of Si QDs doped with B at the nominal concentrations from 7% to 31% (Ni et al. 2016). When the doping levels of B and P are similar, the LSPR energy of B-doped Si QDs is higher than that of P-doped Si QDs (Zhou et al. 2016), because in Si QDs B is more efﬁciently activated to produce free carriers than P. Photovoltaic Applications Si-Wafer-Based Solar Cells Si-wafer-based solar cells dominate in the photovoltaic industry. It is highly desired to improve the efﬁciency of Si-wafer-based solar cells without considerably increas- ing the manufacturing cost. It is well known that the response of Si-wafer-based solar 300 400 500 600 700 800 λp = 740 nm Wavelength (nm) Intensity (a. u.) 900 1000 1100 Fig. 3 Optical absorption and photoluminescence (PL) spectra of Si QDs (Reprinted with permission from Yu et al. 2016, Copyright 2016 John Wiley and Sons) 26 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells 937 cells to short-wavelength light is usually poorer than that to long-wavelength light (Wurﬂet al. 2009; Sun et al. 2009; Gao et al. 2013). Since Si QDs can efﬁciently absorb short-wavelength light and then emit long-wavelength light (i.e., the so-called down-shifting effect), Si QDs may be readily used to improve the perfor- mance of Si-wafer-based solar cells in the short-wavelength region (Sontheimer et al. 2014; Bronger et al. 2014). Švrček et al. (2004) tried taking advantage of the down-shifting effect of Si QDs in 2004. They prepared Si QDs by pulverizing the electrochemical etched porous silicon. The obtained Si QDs were incorporated into liquid spin-on-glass (SOG), which was spin-coated onto the surface of a Si-wafer-based solar cell. Their Si QDs could absorb UV-blue light (500 nm) and emit light at the wavelength around 680 nm. The current-voltage characteristics (IV) of solar cells with or without Si QDs are shown in Figure 5. It was found that the short-circuit current (JSC) slightly increased by 2.5 mA/cm2. The power conversion efﬁciency (PCE) increased by 0.4%. No improvement of the open-circuit voltage (VOC) was observed. Given the fact that the down-shifting efﬁciency of Si QDs dislocated from porous was not high enough (10%) (Cullis et al. 1997) to compensate the difference in the solar cell quantum efﬁciency between short-wavelength light and long-wavelength light, the down-shifting effect of Si QDs should have caused decrease in solar cell efﬁciency. The improvement of the solar cell performance might be due to the simple anti- reﬂection effect of the SOG containing Si QDs. In 2012 Pi et al. (2012) used hydrosilylated Si QDs that had much higher down- shifting efﬁciency (53%) to enhance the performance of Si-wafer-based solar cells. Ink-jet printing was employed to deposit Si QDs at the solar cell surface because hydrosilylated Si QDs could be easily dispersed in organic solvent to form Si-QD ink. Figure 6 shows the schematic of the ink-jet printing of Si-QD ink at the surface Fig. 4 Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra of undoped and heavily B-doped Si NCs. The dash lines show the ﬁtting of LSPR-induced absorption for each heavily B-doped Si NCs by using the Drude model. The free carrier concentrations obtained from the ﬁtting are indicated in parentheses (Reprinted with permission from Zhou et al. 2016, Copyright 2016 American Chemical Society) 938 S. Zhao and X. Pi of a multicrystalline Si solar cell. The thickness of the Si-QD ﬁlm was tuned by adjusting the drop space (D). With the increase of D from 20 to 80 μm, the thickness of the Si QD ﬁlm decreased from 74 to 16 nm. The enhancement of solar cell efﬁciency reached the maximum (up to 2%, i.e., from 17.2% to up to 17.5%) when D was 20 μm. The improvement of ISC mainly led to the enhancement of the solar cell efﬁciency. The external quantum efﬁciency (EQE) curves are shown in Figure 7. It was noteworthy that the antireﬂection of Si QD ﬁlms could not account for all the increase of EQE in the 300400 nm region. The down-shifting effect of hydrosilylated Si QDs indeed improved the solar cell response in the short- wavelength region. It was concluded that the down-shifting effect of Si QDs together with the antireﬂection of Si QD ﬁlms contributed to the enhancement of multi- crystalline Si solar cells. Si QDs and Organic Solar Cells Organic materials including polymers and small molecules (Scharber et al. 2006; Li et al. 2005; Zuo et al. 2015; Lee et al. 2015; Guo et al. 2013) have been intensively investigated for thin-ﬁlm solar cells. One of the methods to further improve the performance is the incorporation of semiconductor QDs to form hybrid solar cells. This is largely due to the desirable energy alignment with polymer and absorption in 0.00 -0.05 -0.10 -0.15 -0.20 0.0 SOG only 1 % Si-nc in 130 nm thick SOG 0.2 0.4 0.6 Voltage [V] Current [A] Fig. 5 Current-voltage characteristics of a Si-wafer- based solar cell. Open circles: spin-on-glass (SOG) containing Si QDs. Solid line: SOG only (Reprinted with permission from (Pi et al. 2013, Copyright 2003 Elsevier) Fig. 6 Schematic of the ink-jet printing of Si QD ink at the surface of multicrystalline Si solar cells. Drop spaces ranging from 20 to 80 μm have been selected to obtain Si QD ﬁlms with varying thickness and porosity after the evaporation of the solvent of Si QD ink (Reprinted with permission from Pi et al. 2012, Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society) 26 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells 939 the short wavelength (Wendy et al. 2002; Liu et al. 2009, 2013; Ren et al. 2011; Xue et al. 2011; Liao et al. 2012). Up to now, various promising organic/inorganic hybrid solar cells have been reported, in which cadmium selenide (CdSe) (Greenham et al. 1996), zinc oxide (ZnO) (Beek et al. 2006), titanium dioxide (TiO2) (Kwong et al. 2004), lead sulﬁde (PbS) (Günes et al. 2007), lead selenide (PbSe) (Arici et al. 2003), and copper indium disulﬁde (CuInS2) (Cui et al. 2006) QDs were used. It should be noted that among all kinds of QDs Si QDs hold an advantageous position because of the nontoxicity and abundance of Si. Therefore, Si QDs are worth incorporating into the organic/inorganic hybrid solar cell structures. Si QDs/P3HT Solar Cells Liu et al. (2009) demonstrated hybrid solar cells based on Si QDs and poly (3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) in 2009. They fabricated the Si QDs/P3HT solar cells by spin-coating the blends of Si QDs and P3HT onto indium tin oxide (ITO)-coated glass substrates. Firstly, roughly 50 nm of poly(3,4-ethylenedioxy-thiophene)/poly (styrenesulfonate) (PEDOT:PSS) was spun onto the pure ITO glass substrates. The PEDOT:PSS ﬁlm was then annealed on the hot plate to remove excess water at 130 C. The Si QDs/P3HT solution was then sonicated and spun on top of the PEDOT:PSS layer in a glovebox to form a ﬁlm, which was approximately 100 nm thick. Finally, 2 mm wide aluminum (Al) electrodes (100 nm thick) were evaporated on top of the Si QDs/P3HT ﬁlm. Figure 8a shows the band alignment of Si QDs and P3HT. It is clear that a type II structure can be formed by using Si QDs and P3HT. Therefore, the exciton dissociation at the interface of the type II structure is ener- getically favorable. The schematic in Figure 8b illustrates the device structure, in which the ITO and Al are the anode and cathode, respectively. To understand the role of Si QDs in these hybrid solar cells, Liu et al. used Si QDs with the sizes of 35, 59, and 1020 nm and different Si QDs/P3HT weight ratios. Figure 9a shows that VOC was inversely related to the QD size, regardless of the Si Fig. 7 EQE of solar cells before (black lines) and after (red lines) the ink-jet printing of Si QD ink with the drop space of (a) 20 and (b) 80 μm. Calculated EQE curves (blue lines) that are obtained by only considering the antireﬂection of Si QD ﬁlms are also included (Reprinted with permission from Pi et al. 2012, Copyright 2012 American Chemical Society) 940 S. Zhao and X. Pi QDs/P3HT weight ratio. The increase of the Si bandgap resulted in a smaller conduction band offset between Si QDs and P3HT (Figure 8a) and therefore less voltage loss during exciton dissociation. This result clearly indicated the importance Fig. 8 (a) Energy band diagram of a Si QDs/P3HTsolar cell. The dotted lines represent the valence and conduction bands of bulk Si, while the solid lines are representative of 4 nm Si QDs. (b) Schematic of a Si QDs/P3HT hybrid solar cell. In the Si QDs/P3HT hybrid device, P3HT can absorb the incident light to generate the photo-generated carriers. The Si QDs act as the electron acceptors, transferring the photo-generated electrons to the cathode (Reprinted with permission from Liu et al. 2009, Copyright 2009 American Chemical Society) Fig. 9 Silicon QDs/P3HT solar cell performance characteristics for devices with different Si QDs/P3HT ratios and QD sizes. 35, 59, and 1020 nm Si QDs are represented with blue squares, red triangles, and black diamonds, respectively (Reprinted with permission from Liu et al. 2009, Copyright 2009 American Chemical Society) 26 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells 941 of the size of Si QDs for the device performance. ISC also increased when the size of Si QDs decreased. For smaller Si QDs, the transfer of an electron to the Al electrode in a device needed fewer hopping events. Hence, the electron transport was enhanced in devices with smaller Si QDs. However, for all the QD sizes, the values of ISC were the maximum when the Si QDs/P3HTweight ratio was between 30% and 70%. This should be due to the balance between electron and hole transport. For a rather high Si QD/P3HT weight ratio, Si QD agglomeration seriously deteriorated ﬁlm uniformity, giving rise to a larger ﬁlm resistance. Hence, ISC decreased when the Si QD/P3HT weight ratio was rather high. The measured ﬁll factor (FF) was nearly independent of the Si QD size and Si QDs/P3HT weight ratio (Figure 9c). The change of the power conversion efﬁciency (PCE) actually followed the trend of the change in ISC (Figure 9d). Apart from the size of Si QDs and Si QDs/P3HTweight ratio, the temperature and time of the post-annealing of the Si QDs/P3HT ﬁlm were found to affect the performance of Si QDs/P3HT hybrid solar cells (Liu et al. 2010). Si QDs/P3HT ﬁlms with the Si QD/P3HT weight ratio of 50 wt% were annealed from 100 to 200 C for different annealing time (5, 30, and 120 min). Figure 10a shows that VOC Fig. 10 Hybrid solar cell performance of 50 wt% Si QD/P3HT devices with different annealing temperatures (100, 125, 150, 175, 200 C) and periods (5, 30, 120 min). 5, 30, and 120 min annealing periods are represented with squares, diamonds, and triangles, respectively (Reprinted with permission from Liu et al. 2010, Copyright 2010 John Wiley and Sons) 942 S. Zhao and X. Pi was nearly independent of annealing temperature and time. ISC, however, was apparently dependent on annealing temperature and time. The maximum ISC was obtained at the annealing temperature of 150 C and the annealing time of 120 min. FF increased with the increase of the annealing temperature up to 175 C. FF only slightly increased as the annealing time increased (Figure 10c). As shown in Figure 10d, the maximum PCE (1.47%) was obtained as the Si QDs/P3HT ﬁlm was annealed at 150 C for 120 min. The enhanced performance of the post-annealed devices was attributed to the improved hole transport. Hole mobility in the P3HT phase was enhanced by almost one order of magnitude after annealing because of the increase in the P3HT polymer conjugation length (Figure 11). The improved hole transport might reduce the electron/hole recombination, enhancing ISC and FF. Liu et al. also studied the effect of cathodes on the performance of the hybrid Si QDs/P3HT solar cells. Metals (Ca, Mg, Al, Ag, and Au) with different work functions were evaporated on the active layer. When the cathodes with work functions smaller than that of Al (4.3 eV) were used, VOC was determined by the energy difference between the highest occupied molecular orbit (HOMO) of P3HT and the conductive band (CB) of Si QDs. When the cathodes with work functions larger than that of Al were used, VOC and ISC rapidly decreased with increasing metal work function. These results were helpful to the further improvement of the Si QD/P3HT hybrid solar cells. The surface control of Si QDs was found to be critical to the performance of Si QDs/P3HT hybrid solar cells. In 2014 Ding et al. (2014a) compared Si QDs with varying surfaces for organic/inorganic hybrid solar cells, as shown in Figure 12. Si QDs with Cl, O, and H at the QD surface were denoted by Cl:Si QDs, O:Si QDs, and H:Si QDs, respectively. Please note that there was O at the QD surface even for Cl:Si QDs and H:Si QDs. Figure 13 shows the JV curves of the devices fabricated with Cl:Si QDs, O:Si QDs, and H:Si QDs. A low JSC of 0.7 mA/cm2 and a low PCE of only 0.15% were obtained for the hybrid solar cell based on Cl:Si QDs. Fig. 11 IV characteristic of a hole-transport-only device of 50 wt% Si QD/P3HT (active layer thickness around 150 nm) before and after 150 C annealing for 120 min. The as-cast and annealed data are represented with triangles and diamonds, respectively. The inset shows the device conﬁguration (Reprinted with permission from Liu et al. 2010, Copyright 2010 John Wiley and Sons) 26 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells 943 Fig. 12 (a) FTIR spectra of as-produced Cl:Si QDs, O:Si QDs, and HF etched nanocrystals for 0.5, 1, 2, and 5 h, respectively. (b) Schematic depiction of Si QD surface evolution during treatment (Reprinted with permission from Ding et al. 2014a, Copyright 2014 Elsevier) Fig. 13 JV curves of hybrid solar cells under 1 sun illumination (Reprinted with permission from Ding et al. 2014a, Copyright 2014 Elsevier) 944 S. Zhao and X. Pi The poor solar cell performance was induced by the recombination of carriers in the recombination centers, which were the most likely dangling bonds at the QD surface. PCE became nearly zero when Cl:Si QDs were severely oxidized. It was suggested that severe oxidation on the surface of Si QDs introduced thick oxide shells, which could block the carrier transport. After the oxide at the surface of Si QDs was etched by HF, the resulting H:Si QDs gave rise to the signiﬁcant increase of PCE. JSC increased to about 1.2 mA/cm2 after 0.5 h etching. When the etching time of Si QDs further increased (1 h, 2 h, 5 h), both JSC and VOC increased. The hybrid solar cells based on Si QDs that were etched for 5 h exhibited the highest PCE of 0.5%, which was at least three times higher than that of the Cl:Si QD device. It is clear that Cl atoms should be removed from the surface of Cl:Si QDs to obtain good solar cell performance. The removal of Cl atoms might be facilely achieved by oxidizing the QD surface and then etching. Si QDs/PTB7 Solar Cells As a kind of donor material, P3HT is widely used in hybrid solar cells because of its efﬁcient light absorption and high hole mobility. However, it may not be the best choice in Si QD-based hybrid solar cells due to its wide bandgap of 2.0 eV. The absorption peak of P3HT is about 530 nm, which limits the absorption of light in the long-wavelength region. Si QDs usually efﬁciently absorb light in the short-wavelength region. Although the absorption of Si QDs is complementary to that of P3HT, light with wavelengths longer than 650 nm cannot be well absorbed. Therefore, a donor material with a smaller bandgap in Si QD-based hybrid solar cells needs to be used to extend the solar cell response to longer-wavelength region. Compared with P3HT, poly[[4,8-bis[(2-ethylhexyl)oxy] benzo[1,2-b:4,5-b] dithiophene-2,6-diyl][3-ﬂuoro-2-[(2-ethylhexyl)carbonyl]-thieno[3,4b]thiophenediyl]] (PTB7) is a better donor material because the bandgap of PTB7 is smaller than that of P3HT (1.8 eV vs 2.0 eV). Si QD/PTB7 blend ﬁlms have complementary absorption in the wavelength range of 300800 nm, as shown in Figure 14a (Ding et al. 2014b). Figure 14b shows the molecular structures and corresponding energy levels of P3HT, PTB7, and Si QDs. As mentioned before, the alignment of the energy levels of P3HT and Si QDs leads to a type II structure, which is favorable for exciton dissociation at the interface of Si QDs/P3HT. A similar alignment is expected for the PTB7/Si QDs hybrid structure. However, the HOMO of PTB7 is approximately 0.15 eV lower than that of P3HT. This results in the enlarged difference between the HOMO level of PTB7 and the conduction band of Si QDs. Since VOC is related to the difference between the CB of Si QDs and the HOMO of the polymer in the Si QDs/polymer system, VOC was found to increase when PTB7 was used. Compared to the Si QD/P3HT devices, the Si QDs/PTB7 devices showed larger JSC, consistent with the enhanced light absorption in the longer-wavelength region. Figure 15 illustrates the EQE curves of both the Si QD/P3HT and Si QD/PTB7 solar cells. The Si QD/P3HT solar cells showed photocurrent response up to 650 nm with the maximum EQE of 50%, while the Si QD/PTB7 solar cell exhibited the photocurrent response up to 800 nm with the maximum EQE of 70%. 26 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells 945 Dangling bonds may exist at the surface of Si QDs, acting as carrier traps to deteriorate the solar cell performance. Ding et al. proposed to eliminate the dangling band at the surface of Si QDs by controlling the surface oxidation Ding et al. (2016). In their work, fresh Si QDs were oxidized in air for 0, 1, 12, 24, and 48 h, respectively. From the FTIR spectra shown in Figure 16a we can ﬁnd that the intensity of the Si-O signal increased with the increase of oxidation time. However, Figure 16b shows that the electron spin resonance (ESR) signal related to the dangling bonds at the surface of Si QDs with a g factor of 2.006 decreased with the increase of oxidation time. Figure 16c demonstrates that the growth of the oxide at the QD surface was well correlated to the reduction of the dangling bonds at the QD surface. Fig. 14 (a) Absorbance spectra of Si QDs, P3HT, PTB7, Si QD/P3HT blend, and Si QD/PTB7 blend ﬁlms. (b) Chemical structures and energy level diagrams of Si QDs, P3HT and PTB7 (Reprinted with permission from Ding et al. 2014b, Copyright 2014 Elsevier) 946 S. Zhao and X. Pi Fig. 15 Typical EQE spectra for Si QD/P3HT and Si QD/PTB7 devices (Reprinted with permission from Ding et al. 2014, Copyright 2014 Elsevier) Fig. 16 (a) FTIR and (b) ESR spectra of Si QDs oxidized for different time. (c) Si-O-related FTIR and dangling bond-related ESR intensities as the function of oxidation time (Reprinted with permission from Ding et al. 2014b, Copyright 2014 Elsevier) 26 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells 947 Figure 17a, b shows the band alignment and JV curves of Si QDs/PTB7 hybrid solar cells. The staggered band alignment of the type II Si QDs/PTB7 hybrid structure ensured efﬁcient charge transport and collection. In all the devices FF and VOC did not change with the oxidation time of Si QDs. FF and VOC were always about 50% and 0.6 V, respectively. However, JSC and PCE increased until the oxidation time was higher than 12 h. The average PCE was improved from 1.7% to 3.3%. The highest PCE of 3.6% was obtained after 12 h oxidation. When the oxidation time of Si QDs in air was longer than 12 h, JSC and PCE started decreasing. It was found that the mobility of the Si QDs ﬁlm initially increased and then decreased with the increase of oxidation time, as shown in the Figure 18. The turning point was at 12 h. This implied that the too thick oxide at the QD surface was harmful to the charge transport of the Si QD/PTB7 solar cells, leading to the decrease of the solar cell performance. Si QDs/P3HT/PCBM Ternary Hybrid Solar Cells Although all kinds of organic materials have been used together with Si QDs to form hybrid solar cells, the values of PCE have not reached those of classic organic solar cells. To further improve the performance of Si QD-based hybrid solar cells, Zhao et al. (2016) incorporated Si QDs into the classical bulk heterojunction organic solar cells based on P3HT and [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) to fabricate the Si QDs/P3HT/PCBM ternary solar cells. In contrast to simply adding Si QDs into the P3HT:PCBM hybrid system (Kim et al. 2012), part of PCBM or P3HT was replaced with Si QDs. This led to the P3HT:(Si QDs)x:(PCBM)1x or (P3HT)1y:(Si QDs)y:PCBM ternary hybrid solar cells. Figure 19 shows the perfor- mance of the ternary solar cells with different weight fractions of Si QDs. As shown in Figure 19a, JSC initially increased and then decreased as x increased for P3HT:(Si QDs)x:(PCBM)1x solar cells. The highest JSC (16.15 mA/cm2) appeared when x was 0.05. This maximum JSC was signiﬁcantly larger than that of the P3HT:PCBM solar cell. However, VOC monotonically decreased from 0.59 to Fig. 17 (a) Band alignment of Si QD/PTB7 hybrid solar cells. (b) Typical photo JV curves of solar cells fabricated with Si QDs oxidized for different time (Reprinted with permission from Ding et al. 2014b, Copyright 2014 Elsevier) 948 S. Zhao and X. Pi 0.22 V when x increased up to 0.6. For (P3HT)1-y:(Si QDs)y:PCBM ternary hybrid solar cells, it was found that both JSC and VOC decreased with the increase of y (Figure 19b). Figure 19c shows that FF decreased with the increase of the weight fraction of Si QDs for both P3HT:(Si QDs)x:(PCBM)1x and (P3HT)1y:(Si QDs)y: PCBM solar cells. Interestingly, the trend of the change of PCE was similar to that of JSC when the fraction of Si QDs varied. This indicated the change of JSC was mainly Fig. 18 Dependence of the carrier mobility of the Si QD ﬁlm on the oxidation time of Si QDs (Reprinted with permission from Ding et al. 2014b, Copyright 2014 Elsevier) Fig. 19 Dependence of JSC and VOC on (a) x and (b) y. Dependence of (c) FF and (d) PCE on x and y. Error bars in (ad) correspond to a conﬁdence of 95% (Reprinted with permission from Zhao et al. 2016, Copyright 2016 Elsevier) 26 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells 949 responsible for the variation of PCE. It is worthy to point out that the highest PCE of 4.11% was obtained for P3HT:(Si QDs)x:(PCBM)1x ternary hybrid solar cells when x was 0.05. The difference in the dependence of the PCE on the weight fraction of Si QDs between P3HT:(Si QDs)x:(PCBM)1x and (P3HT)1y:(Si QDs)y:PCBM solar cells implied that the weight fraction of Si QDs in the whole mixture could not solely determine the solar cell performance (Figure 20). It was clear that the original P3HT:PCBM blend only efﬁciently absorb light in the wavelength region from 450 to 600 nm. When x increased, the absorption of the P3HT:(Si QDs)x:(PCBM)1x blend in the short-wavelength region (450 nm) increased. As x was not larger than 0.05, EQE increased with the increase of x. EQE increased not only in the short-wavelength region (450 nm) but also in the long-wavelength region (450600 nm). The Si QDs/P3HT/PCBM ternary hybrid structure had the cascade energy alignment, which might improve the carrier sepa- ration and transport and decrease the energy loss during the carrier separation and transport. In the wavelength region of 350500 nm, the enhanced optical absorption should also lead to the increase of EQE. After x increased beyond 0.05, EQE decreased with the increase of x in the whole wavelength region. It was believed that structural deterioration became serious when x was large. For (P3HT)1y: Fig. 20 UV-vis absorption spectra of (a) P3HT:(Si QDs)x:(PCBM)1x blends and (b) (P3HT)1y: (Si QDs)y:PCBM blends. External quantum efﬁciency (EQE) of (c) P3HT:(Si QDs)x:(PCBM)1x solar cells and (d) (P3HT)1y:(Si QDs)y:PCBM solar cells (Reprinted with permission from Zhao et al. 2016, Copyright 2016 Elsevier) 950 S. Zhao and X. Pi (Si QDs)y:PCBM solar cells, EQE always decreased with the increase of y in the whole wavelength region. This was consistent with the fact that P3HT was mainly responsible for the optical absorption in the P3HT:PCBM blend. When the amount of P3HT decreased (i.e., y increased), the optical absorption decreased, resulting in the decrease of EQE. In addition, when Si QDs directly replaced P3HT in (P3HT)1y:(Si QDs)y:PCBM solar cells, the ratios of the weight of P3HT to that of Si QDs were smaller than those for P3HT:(Si QDs)x:(PCBM)1x solar cells at the same values of x and y. Therefore, the crystallization of P3HT and nanostructure of active layer might be seriously affected by the excessive fraction of Si QDs. The maximum PCE of 4.11% was obtained for P3HT:(Si QDs)x:(PCBM)1x solar cells when x was 0.05. The PCE of 4.11% corresponded to an increase of 40% with respect to that of the original P3HT:PCBM solar cell. Si QDs and Carbon Nanostructures Solar Cells Švrček et al. (2010) prepared stable assemblies of Si QDs coupled with fullerenes (C60) without any additional surfactant or catalyst. The assemblies of Si QDs and C60 were used as the active layers to fabricate heterojunction solar cells. The solar cell structure is shown in the inset of Figure 21a. The EQE of the Si QDs/C60 solar cell in the short-wavelength region was quite high due to the strong optical absorption of Si QDs in the short-wavelength region (Figure 21a). Švrček et al. compared Si QDs produced by the fragmentation of bulk Si in water and those in ethanol. It was found that the EQE of the solar cell based on Si QDs produced in water was higher than that of the solar cell based on Si QDs produced in ethanol. A self-assembly process was thought to only occur to the fragmentation of bulk Si in water, while the fragmen- tation of bulk Si in ethanol tended to produce well-separated large spherical aggre- gates with an average diameter of 300 nm. The self-assembled networks of Si QDs more facilitated the charge transport than the well-separated large spherical aggre- gates of Si QDs. Hence, the EQE of the solar cell based on Si QDs produced in water was clearly higher than that of the solar cell based on Si QDs produced in ethanol. The solar cell based on Si QDs produced in water had the EQE of over 1.4% in the short-wavelength region and the EQE of up to 0.06% in the wavelength region of 550700 nm, as shown in Figure 21a. Figure 21b shows the band diagram of the hybrid Si QD/C60 solar cell structure. The type II energy-level alignment between Si QDs and C60 facilitated the charge separation. After the solar cell absorbed photons, excitons were generated and then dissociated at the Si QD/C60 interface. Electrons transferred through C60 to reach the cathode, while holes transferred through Si QDs to reach the anode. Švrček et al. have also fabricated bulk-heterojunction solar cells by using n-type/ p-type Si QDs and single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) with an average diameter of 0.83 nm (Švrček et al. 2011). Both n- and p-type of Si QDs were produced by electrochemical etching of silicon wafers and subsequent mechanical pulverization. Sedimentation of Si QDs in ethanol for 30 min was employed to eliminate large agglomerates before the mixing of Si QDs with SWCNTs in toluene. The mixture was spray-cast on glass coated with ITO/PEDOT:PSS. Finally, a 100 nm thick Al electrode was deposited to complete the solar cell structure, 26 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells 951 Fig. 21 (a) EQE of the Si QD/C60 hybrid solar cells. Si QDs were produced either in water or in ethanol. The inset shows the Si QD/C60 hybrid solar cell structure. (b) Band diagram of the Si QD/C60 hybrid solar cell (Reprinted with permission from Švrček et al. 2010, Copyright 2010 IOP Publishing Ltd) Fig. 22 (a) Schematic view and EQE curves of the devices. The IV characteristics in the dark and under AM 1.5 illumination of solar cells based on semiconducting SWCNTs and (b) n-type and (c) p-type Si QDs, respectively (Reprinted with permission from Švrček et al. 2011, Copyright 2011 American Chemical Society) 952 S. Zhao and X. Pi which is shown in the inset of Figure 22a. Figure 22a shows the EQE curves of p- type Si QDs/SWCNTs and SWCNTs-only solar cells. The EQE of the p-type Si QDs/SWCNTs solar cell was larger than that of the SWCNTs-only solar cell, especially in the short-wavelength region. The IV characteristics of the n-type Si QDs/SWCNTs and p-type Si QDs/SWCNTs solar cells are presented in Figure 22b, c, respectively. Both devices showed good rectifying characteristics. However, the current of the p-type Si QDs/SWCNTs solar cell was much higher than that of the n-type Si QDs/SWCNTs solar cell. This meant that p-type Si QDs were more suitable to combine with SWCNTs than n-type ones due to the better electrical coupling between p-type Si QDs and SWCNTs. This might originate from the better alignment of the energy levels between the p-type Si QDs and SWCNTs. The device with the p-type Si QDs/SWCNTs structure showed good optical absorption over a broad spectral range (3001,400 nm). Under AM 1.5 illumination, the VOC, ISC, FF, and PCE of the device were 0.14 V, 0.3 mA/cm2, 0.25, and 0.01%, respectively. Si QD-Sensitized Solar Cells In 1991, Gratzels group reported a low-cost, high efﬁciency solar cell based on dye-sensitized TiO2 ﬁlms for the ﬁrst time (Regan and Gratzel 1991). In the past decade, there has been interest in the use of QDs to sensitize TiO2 ﬁlms in the solar cell structures, leading to the so-called QD-sensitized solar cells (QDSSCs) (Chang et al. 2013; Li et al. 2011, 2012; Xu et al. 2012; Lin et al. 2013; Luo et al. 2013; Pan et al. 2014). Wang et al. (2013) fabricated a Si QD-sensitized solar cell by using 1-dodecene hydrosilylated Si QDs. A TiO2-nanorod ﬁlm was ﬁrst fabricated on ﬂuorinated tin oxide (FTO) with hydrochloric acid, deionized water, and tetra-n-butyl titanate through a hydrothermal process. The TiO2-nanorod ﬁlm was then immersed in the solution of 1-dodecene hydrosilylated Si QDs for 96 h, leading to the attachment of Si QDs to the TiO2-nanorod ﬁlm. The Si QD-absorbed TiO2-nanorod ﬁlm was subsequently heated at 450 C for 30 min. Figure 23a schematically shows the structure of the solar cell based on the Si QD-sensitized TiO2-nanorod ﬁlm. The IV characteristics of the Si-QD-sensitized solar cell are shown in Figure 23b. The PCE of the solar cell was 0.1%. Such a low PCE was mainly due to the limited absorption of sunlight. Both TiO2 and Si QDs could only effectively absorb short-wavelength light. Kim et al. (2010) carried out surface modiﬁcation for Si QDs to obtain carboxyl- terminated Si QDs. They used these Si QDs together with the dye of N719 to sensitize TiO2 ﬁlms in their solar cell structures. The solar cell performance under the standard illumination was shown in Table 1. Compared to the traditional dye-sensitized solar cell (DSSC) only with the dye of N719, the photovoltaic performance of the solar cell containing both N719 and Si QDs was signiﬁcantly improved. Figure 24a, b showed the IV curves and IPCE curves of the solar cells only with the dye of N719 and with both the dye of N719 and Si QDs. Kim et al. attributed the improved solar cell performance to the connection of Si QDs and the dye of N719. The JSC increase was due to both the direct sensitization of Si QDs and the indirect sensitization of the dye of N719 anchored at the surface of Si QDs. The 26 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells 953 incident photon to current efﬁciency (IPCE) increased in the entire visible range after the incorporation of Si QDs, indicating that Si QDs signiﬁcantly enhanced the optical absorption of the dye of N719. Summary Given the nontoxicity and abundance of Si and the solution-based processing, colloidal Si QDs are potentially suitable for the fabrication of low-cost and high- performance solar cells. Signiﬁcant progress has been made on the use of colloidal Si QDs in all kinds of solar cell structures. However, the relatively week optical absorption of Si QDs in the long-wavelength region and the poor charge transport of Si-QD ﬁlms refrain the development of high-efﬁciency solar cells in which Si QDs play a central role. It has been recently demonstrated that doping can effectively tune the electronic and optical properties of Si QDs. The optical absorption of Si QDs may be extended to the long-wavelength region after doping. Doping may signiﬁcantly improve the charge transport of Si-QD ﬁlms. The continuous develop- ment of the surface manipulation of Si QDs should help further minimize the density Fig. 23 (a) Schematic diagram of a Si QDs sensitized solar cell. (b) Current-voltage characteristics of the Si QDs sensitized solar cell in the dark and AM1.5 illumination (Reprinted with permission from Wang et al. 2013, Copyright 2013 China Association for Science and Technology) Table 1 Photovoltaic parameters of DSSCs treated and untreated with carboxyl-terminated Si QDs at two different TiO2 film thicknesses (Reprinted with permission from Kim et al. 2010, Copyright 2010 American Chemical Society) Thickness (μm) Si-COOH Jsc (mA cm2) Voc (V) FF (%) η (%) 4  0.4 Without 7.97  0.22 0.67  0.01 67  3 3.6  0.2 With 8.82  0.22 0.70  0.01 72  3 4.4  0.2 10  0.4 Without 12.9  0.22 0.69  0.01 58  3 5.2  0.2 With 13.8  0.22 0.71  0.01 61  3 6.1  0.2 954 S. Zhao and X. Pi Fig. 24 (a) JV curves of solar cells consisting of TiO2 ﬁlms treated (solid circles) and untreated (open squares) with carboxyl-terminated Si QDs. (b) IPCE spectra of solar cells treated (solid circles) and untreated (open squares) with carboxyl- terminated Si QDs and the difference (solid diamonds) between the two spectra (Reprinted with permission from Kim et al. 2010, Copyright 2010. American Chemical Society) 26 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells 955 of defects at the QD surface and facilitate the charge transport between Si QDs. All the improvements of the Si-QD materials greatly contribute to the design and fabrication of Si-QD solar cells. It may be envisioned that exciting development of both Si-QD solar cells and hybrid solar cells based on Si QDs with low cost and high efﬁciency will be realized in the future. References R. Anthony, U. Kortshagen, Phys. Rev. B 80, 115407 (2009) E. Arici, S. Sariciftci, D. Meissner, Adv. Funct. Mater. 13, 165 (2003) W. J. E. Beek, M. M. Wienk, R. A. J. Janssen, Adv. Funct. Mater. 16, 1112 (2006) G. Belomoin, J. Therrien, A. Smith, S. Rao, H.N. Wagner, L. Mitas, Appl. Phys. Lett. 80, 841 (2002) R. A. Bley, S. M. Kauzlarich, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 118, 12461 (1996) C. Bostedt, T. van Buuren, T. M. Willey, N. Franco, L. J. Terminello, C. Heske, T. Möller, Appl. Phys. Lett. 84, 4056 (2004) A. M. P. Botas, R. A. S. Ferreira, R. N. Pereira, R. J. Anthony, T. Moura, D. J. Rowe, U. Kortshagen, J. Phys. Chem. C 118, 10375 (2014) R. Boukherroub, S. Morin, D. D. M. Wayner, F. Bensebaa, G. Sproule, J. Baribeau, D. Lockwood, Chem. Mater. 12, 2002 (2011) T. Bronger, P. H. Wöbkenberg, J. Wördenweber, S. Muthmann, U. W. Paetzold, V. Smirnov, S. Traut, Ü. Dagkaldiran, S. Wieber, M. Cölle, A. P. Schwab, O. Wunnicke, M. Patz, M. Trocha, U. Rau, R. Carius, Adv. Mater. Interface 4, n/a (2014) J. Buriak, Chem. Mater. 26, 763 (2013) T.V. Buuren, L.N. Dinh, L.L. Chase, W.J. Siekhaus, L.J. Terminello, Phys. Rev. Lett. 30, 3803 (1998) J. Chang, J. Lin, L. Su, C. Chang, ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 5, 8740 (2013) D. Cui, J. Xu, T. Zhu, G. Paradee, S. Gerhold, Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 183111 (2006) A. Cullis, L. Canham, P. Calcott, J. Appl. Phys. 82, 909 (1997) M. Dasog, Z. Yang, S. Regli, T. Atkins, A. Faramus, M. Singh, E. Muthuswamy, S. Kauzlarich, R. Tilley, J. G. C. Veinot, ACS Nano 7, 2676 (2013) M. Dasog, G. Reyes, L.V. Titova, F. A. Hegmann, J. G. V. Veinot, ACS Nano 8, 9646 (2014) Y. Ding, R. Gresback, Q. Liu, S. Zhou, X. Pi, T. Nozaki, Nano Energy 9, 25 (2014a) Y. Ding, M. Sugaya, Q. Liu, S. Zhou, T. Nozaki, Nano Energy 10, 322 (2014b) Y. Ding, M. Sugaya, S. Zhou, Z. Ni, X. Pi, T. Nozaki, ACS Photon. 3, 415 (2016) K. Dohnalová, T. Gregorkiewicz, K. Kůsová, J. Phys. Condens. Matter 26, 173201 (2014) M. Fujii, S. Hayashi, K. Yamamoto, J. Appl. Phys. 83, 7953 (1998) M. Fujii, Y. Yamaguchi, Y. Takase, K. Ninomiya, S. Hayashi, Appl. Phys. Lett. 85, 1158 (2004) Y. Gao, S. Zhou, Y. Zhang, C. Dong, X. Pi, D. Yang, J. Mater. Sci. Technol. 29, 652 (2013) N. Greenham, X. Peng, A. P. Alivisatos, Phys. Rev. B 54, 17628 (1996) R. Gresback, Y. Murakami, Y. Ding, R. Yamada, K. Okazaki, T. Nozaki, Langmuir 29, 1802 (2013) S. Gunes, K. Fritz, H. Neugebauer, N. Sariciftci, S. Kumar, G. Scholes, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells 91, 420 (2007) X. Guo, N. Zhou, S. Lou, J. Smith, D. Tice, J. Hennek, R. Ortiz, J. Navarrete, S. Li, J. Strzalka, L. Chen, R. Chang, A. Facchetti, T.J. Marks, Nature Photon. 7, 825 (2013) A. Gupta, H. Wiggers, Phys. E. 41, 1010 (2009) C. Hessel, D. Reid, M. Panthani, J. Wei, H. Fujii, V. Akhavan, D. Kortgel, Chem. Mater. 24, 393 (2012) Y. Hori, S. Kano, H. Sugimoto, K. Imakita, M. Fujii, Nnao Lett. 16, 2615 (2016) A. Hryciw, J. Laforge, C. Blois, M. Glover, A. Meldrum, Adv. Mater. 7, 845 (2005) 956 S. Zhao and X. Pi F. Hua, M. Swihart, E. Ruckenstein, Langmuir 21, 6054 (2005) D. Jurbergs, E. Rogojina, L. Mangolini, U. Kortshagen, Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 233116 (2006) J. Kelly, J. G. C. Veinot, ACS Nano 4, 4645 (2010) J. Kelly, J. G. C. Veinot, E. Alberta, ACS Nano 4, 2002 (2010) J. Kelly, A. Shukaliak, M. Fleischauer, J. G. C. Veinot, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 133, 4645 (2011) R. Kheliﬁ, D. Mathiot, R. Gupta, D. Muller, M. Roussel, S. Duguay, Appl. Phys. Lett. 102, 13116 (2013) Y. Kim et al., Chem. Mater. 22, 207 (2010) K. Kim, J. Lee, M. Swihart, M. Yang, Appl. Phys. Express 5, 22302 (2012) J. Knipping, H. Wiggers, B. Rellinghaus, P. Roth, D. Konjhodzic, C. Meierb, J. Nanosci. Nano- technol. 4, 1039 (2004) U. Kortshagen, J. Phys. D. Appl. Phys. 42, 113001 (2009) U. Kortshagen, R. M. Sankaran, R. N. Pereira, S. L. Girshick, J. J. Wu, E. S. Aydil, Chem. Rev. 116, 11061 (2016) C. Kwong, W. Choy, P. Chui, K. Cheng, W. Chan, Nanotechnology 15, 1156 (2004) C. S. Lee, W. Yin, A. P. Holt, J. Sangoro, A. P. Sokolov, M. D. Dadmun, Adv. Funct. Mater. 25, 5848 (2015) X. Li, Y. He, S. Talukdar, M. Swihart, Langmuir 19, 8490 (2003) G. Li, V. Shrotriya, J. Huang, Y. Yao, T. Moriarty, K. Emery, Y. Yang, Nat. Mater. 4, 864 (2005) T. Li, Y. Lee, H. Teng, J. Mater. Chem. 21, 5089 (2011) T. Li, Y. Lee, H. Teng, Energy Environ. Sci. 5, 5315 (2012) H. Liao, C. Tsao, T. Lin, M. Jao, C. Chuang, S. Chang, Y. Huang, Y. Shao, C. Chen, C. Su, U. Jeng, Y. Chen, W. Su, ACS Nano 6, 1657 (2012) C. Lin, C. Teng, T. Li, Y. Lee, H. Teng, J. Mater. Chem. A 1, 1155 (2013) C. Liu, Z. C. Holman, U. Kortshagen, Nano Lett. 9, 449 (2009) C. Liu, Z. C. Holman, U. Kortshagen, Adv. Funct. Mater. 20, 2157 (2010) Z. Liu, Y. Sun, J. Yuan, H. Wei, X. Huang, L. Han, W. Wang, H. Wang, W. Ma, Adv. Mater. 25, 5772 (2013) X. Liu, Y. Zhang, T. Yu, X. Qiao, R. Gresback, X. Pi, D. Yang, Part. Part. Syst. Charact. 33, 44 (2015) T. Lopez, L. Mangolini, Nanoscale 6, 1286 (2014) P. Lu, W. Mu, J. Xu, X. Zhang, W. Zhang, W. Li, L. Xu, K. Chen, Sci. Rep. 6, 1 (2016) J. Luo, H. Wei, Q. Huang, X. Hu, H. Zhao, R. Yu, D. Li, Y. Luo, Q. Meng, Chem. Commun. 49, 3881 (2013) Y. Ma, X. Chen, X. Pi, D. Yang, J. Phys. Chem. C 115, 12822 (2011) L. Mangolini, J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B 31, 020801020801 (2013) L. Mangolini, U. Kortshagen, Adv. Mater. 19, 2513 (2007) L. Mangolini, E. Thimsen, U. Kortshagen, Nano Lett. 5, 655 (2005) B. F. P. McVey, R. D. Tilley, Acc. Chem. Res. 47, 3045 (2014) O. Nayfeh, A. Rao, J. Therrien, M. Nayfeh, IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett. 16, 1927 (2004) J. Nelles, D. Sendor, A. Ebbers, F.M. Petrat, H. Wiggers, C. Schulz, U. Simon, Colloid Polym. Sci. 285, 729 (2007) Z. Ni, X. Pi, M. Ali, S. Zhou, T. Nozaki, D. Yang, J. Phys. D 48, 314006 (2015) Z. Ni, X. Pi, S. Zhou, T. Nozaki, B. Grandidier, D. Yang, Adv. Optical Mater. 4, 700 (2016) M. Ostraat, J. Blauwe, M. Green, L. Bell, H. Atwater, R. Flagan, J. Electrochem. Soc. 148, G265 (2001) Z. Pan, I. Sero, Q. Shen, H. Zhang, Y. Li, K. Zhao, J. Wang, X. Zhong, J. Bisquert, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 136, 9203 (2014) N. Park, T. Kim, S. Park, Appl. Phys. Lett. 78, 2825 (2001) K. Pettigrew, Q. Liu, P. Power, S. Kauzlarich, Chem. Mater. 15, 4005 (2003) X. Pi, R. Liptak, S. Campbell, U. Kortshagen, Appl. Phys. Lett. 91, 083112 (2007) X. Pi, R. Liptak, J. Nowak, N. Wells, C. Carter, S. Campbell, U. Kortshagen, Nanotechnology 19, 245603 (2008) 26 Colloidal Silicon Quantum Dots and Solar Cells 957 X. Pi, X. Chen, D. Yang, J. Phys. Chem. C 115, 9838 (2011) X. Pi, L. Zhang, D.R. Yang, J. Phys. Chem. C 116, 21240 (2012) X. Pi, T. Yu, D. Yang, Part. Part. Syst. Charact. 31, 751 (2014) T. Purkait, M. Iqbal, M. Wahl, K. Gottschling, C. Gonzalez, M. Islam, J. Veinot, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 136, 17914 (2014) B. Regan, M. Gratzel, Nature 353, 737 (1991) P. Reiss, M. Carrière, C. Lincheneau, L. Vaure, S. Tamang, Chem. Rev. 116, 10731 (2016) S. Ren, L. Chang, S. K. Lim, J. Zhao, M. Smith, N. Zhao, V. Bulovic, M. Bawendi, S. Gradecak, Nano Lett. 11, 3998 (2011) I. Sandu, P. Moreau, D. Guyomard, L. R. Brousse, Solid State Ionics 178, 1297 (2007) F. Sangghaleh, I. Sychugov, Z. Yang, J. G. C. Veinot, J. Linnros, ACS Nano 9, 7097 (2015) R. Sankaran, D. Holunga, R. Flagan, K. Giapis, Nano Lett. 5, 527 (2005) M. Scharber, D. Mühlbacher, M. Koppe, P. Denk, C. Waldauf, A. Heeger, C. Brabec, Adv. Mater. 18, 789 (2006) T. Sontheimer, D. Amkreutz, K. Schulz, P. Wöbkenberg, C. Guenther, V. Bakumov, J. Erz, C. Mader, S. Traut, F. Ruske, M. Weizman, A. Schnegg, M. Patz, M. Trocha, O. Wunnicke, B. Rech, Adv. Mater. Interfaces 1, 1300046 (2014) H. Sugimoto, M. Fujii, K. Imakita, S. Hayashi, K. Akamatsu, J. Phys. Chem. C 116, 19696 (2012) B. Sun, A. Findikoglu, M. Sykora, D. Werder, V. Klimov, Nano Lett. 9, 1235 (2009) V. Švrček, I. Pelant, J. Rehspringer, P. Gilliot, D. Ohlmann, O. Crguét, B. Hönerlage, T. Chvojka, J. Valenta, J. Dian, Mater. Sci. Eng. C 19, 233 (2002) V. Švrček, A. Slaoui, J. Muller, Thin Solid Films 451, 384 (2004) V. Švrček, D. Mariotti, Y. Shibata, M. Kondo, J. Phys. D. Appl. Phys. 43, 1646 (2010) V. Švrček, S. Cook, S. Kazaoui, M. Kondo, J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 2, 1646 (2011) I. Sychugov, J. Valenta, K. Mitsuishi, J. Linnros, Phys. Rev. B 86, 075311 (2012) R. Wang, X. Pi, D. Yang, Acta Energiae Solaris Sin. 34, 2228 (2013) J.H. Warner, H.R. Dunlop, R.D. Tilley, J. Phys. Chem. B 109, 19064 (2005) J. Wendy, U. Huynh, A. Alivisatos, Science 295, 2425 (2002) L. Wheeler, N. Anderson, P. Palomaki, J. Blackburn, J. Johnson, N. Neale, Chem. Mater. 27, 6869 (2015) M. Wolkin, J. Jorne, P. Fauchet, Phys. Rev. Lett. 82, 197 (1999) I. Wurﬂ, X. Hao, A. Gentle, D. H. Kim, G. Conibeer, M. Green, Appl. Phys. Lett. 95, 153506 (2009) G. Xu, S. Ji, C. Miao, G. Liu, C. Ye, J. Mater. Chem. 22, 4890 (2012) D. Xue, J. Wang, Y. Wang, S. Xin, Y. Guo, L. Wan, Adv. Mater. 23, 3704 (2011) J. Yang, R. Liptak, D. Rowea, J. Wu, J. Casey, D. Witker, S.A. Campbell, U. Kortshagen, Appl. Surf. Sci. 323, 54 (2014) T. Yu, F. Wang, Y. Xu, L. Ma, X. Pi, D. Yang, Adv. Mater. 28, 4912 (2016) M. Zacharias, J. Heitmann, R. Scholz, U. Kahler, M. Schmidt, J. Bläsing, Appl. Phys. Lett. 80, 661 (2002) S. Zhao, X. Pi, C. Mercier, Z. Yuan, B. Sun, D. Yang, Nano Energy 26, 305 (2016) S. Zhou, X. Pi, Z. Ni, Y. Ding, Y. Jiang, C. Jin, C. Delerue, D. Yang, T. Nozaki, ACS Nano 9, 378 (2015) S. Zhou, Z. Ni, Y. Ding, M. Sugaya, X. Pi, T. Nozaki, ACS Photon. 3, 415 (2016) L. Zuo, S. Zhang, H. Li, H. Chen, Adv. Mater. 27, 43 (2015) 958 S. Zhao and X. Pi Index A Absorption coefﬁcient, 658 Advanced cast method, 265 Agglomeration of silicon particles, 99 All-nc-Si-based solar cell, 863, 875 Aluminum induced crystallization (AIC), 763, 765, 770, 773, 782, 784 Argon gas ﬂow rate, 447 Argon gas pressure, 447449 Artiﬁcial grain boundaries, in bulk Si crystals, 226 Atmospheric pressure chemical vapor deposition (APCVD), 766 Atomic force microscopy (AFM), 699700, 727 B Bandgap proﬁling, 681 Band-tail states, 656 B doped ZnO (BZO), 731 Boltzmann constant, 549 Boron removal, slag treatment, 114116 Boundary conditions, 446 Boussinesq approximation, 442 Burgers vector, 544, 546, 553, 554 By-product, comprehensive utilization of, 47, 55, 63, 64 C Carbon, 2224 Carbon impurity, in crystalline silicon, 439 argon gas ﬂow, models for, 442443 argon gas ﬂow rate, effect of, 447 argon gas pressure, effect of, 447449 carbon incorporation, mechanism of, 440 crucible cover design, 449450 crucible cover material design, 451456 distribution of impurities, 446 global heat transfer, models for, 441442 impurity transport, models for, 443446 silica crucible and graphite susceptor, reaction control between, 456459 Carrier lifetime detection, 2429 Cast furnace, 250258 Casting, 176, 177, 187, 190 Cast method, 194, 197, 198, 203, 205, 208, 210, 212 Charge transfer model, 671 Chemical vapor deposition (CVD), 765, 767 reactor, 38, 47, 65, 67 Chlorination process, 41 Chromium, 511 Classic directional solidiﬁcation process, 614 Cleaning, 312, 314, 317, 325 procedures, 331 sequences, 333 of silicon surfaces, 324 solution, 327 Cleavage, 271, 304 Cobalt, 512 Coincidence site lattice (CSL) grain boundaries, 222, 223, 226 Coincidence site lattice (CSL) model, 594 Cold wall reactor, 9798 Colloidal silicon quantum dots (Si QDs), 934 and carbon nanostructures solar cells, 951 electronic properties, 936 optical properties, 937938 and P3HT/PCBM ternary hybrid solar cells, 948951 and poly (3-hexylthiophene) solar cells, 940 preparation, 934936 and PTB7 solar cells, 945948 Conductivity hot probe, thermoelectric conductivity type test method, 1718  Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2019 D. Yang (ed.), Handbook of Photovoltaic Silicon, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-56472-1 959 Conductivity (cont.) rectiﬁer conductivity type test method, 18 Constant photocurrent method (CPM), 705 Constrained crystallization principle, 848 Contamination, wafer, 385387 Conversion efﬁciency, 261 Coolants, 393 Copper, 510 Cover material, 449, 451456 Crucible cover design, 449450 material design, 451456 Crystalline evolution, 695, 698, 699, 708, 709 Crystalline silicon carbon impurity in (see Carbon impurity, in crystalline silicon) dislocations (see Dislocations, crystalline silicon) Crystal/melt interface, 195, 198, 201 Czochralski (CZ) method, 217 Czochralski (Cz) processes, 438 Czochralski silicon (CZ-Si), 401, 404, 408, 413, 415, 419, 421, 425, 427, 429 continuous growth, 153 crystal puller, 131 dislocation-free growth, 137 dopant distribution inhomogeneity, 144 germanium-doped crystal growth, 157 impurity segregation effect in, 142 light-induced-degradation, 148 magnetic ﬁeld assisted growth, 151 melt ﬂow, 140 N doping in CZ-Si silicon growth, 470471 N impurity on mechanical properties, 476477 N-O complexes, 471474 oxygen control, 150 oxygen impurity, 146 oxygen precipitates, 475 pulling, 135 square ingot growth, 156 thermal control, 138 thermal donors, 474475 D Dangling bonds, 641, 652, 670672, 688, 946 Dark conductivity, 664 Debye length, 645 Deep-level transient-spectroscopy (DLTS), 576 Defect(s), 134, 148 BO, 167 engineering (see SMART) light-induced degradation, 167 radiation-induced, 163 slow- and fast-forming, 148 VO, 166 Dendrite growth, 194, 195, 197, 198, 201, 203, 207, 208, 211 Dendritic casting method, 625 Diamond cubic (DC) structure, 543 Diamond wire, 285, 286, 297, 302, 303, 374, 380 Dichlorosilane (DCS), 55 Directional solidiﬁcation (DS), 175, 176, 590 ﬁne grain structures without seeding on Si feedstock, 630633 ﬁne grain structures with seeding on Si feedstock, 625630 quasi-mono technology, 618625 without seed crystals, 613618 Dislocation, 208, 210, 212, 213, 220, 222, 228, 229 clusters, 176, 179, 182, 187, 190 density, 241 Dislocation-free Si, 551, 553 Dislocation generation, 221 grain boundary microstructure, inﬂuence of, 221224 stress distribution, inﬂuence of, 223225 Dislocations, crystalline silicon brittle-to-ductile transition, 571572 critical stress, for dislocation generation, 558560 crystal structure, 543544 dislocation behavior, in multi-crystalline Si, 579580 dislocation dynamics, in deformation, 555557 dislocation immobilization, 561563 dislocation-related deep states, 576577 dislocation-related shallow states, 577578 dislocation structures, 544546 dislocation velocity, 548550, 564567 efﬁciency and electrical properties, of Si solar cells, 580581 electrical characters, 573574 electronic structures, 574575 fracture toughness, 570571 Hirth-Lothe kink diffusion model, 553555 hydrogen-enhanced dislocation glides, 569570 plastic deformation and yield strength, 550553 recombination at dislocations, 576 960 Index recombination-enhanced dislocation glides, 567569 shufﬂe- /glide-set of dislocations, 557558 Suzuki effect, 563564 Drude model, 938 E Electron backscattered diffraction (EBSD), 780, 781 Electron beam back scatter diffraction (EBSD), 605606 Electron-beam evaporation (EBE), 771, 773 Electron beam induced conductivity (EBIC), 780 Electron beam induced current (EBIC), 609 Electron spin resonance (ESR), Si QDs, 946 Energy band diagram, Si QDs/P3HT solar cell, 941 Epitaxial growth, 760, 763, 764, 766, 768, 770, 771, 773, 774, 784 Etching, 312, 313 anodic, 317 chemical, 317 dry, 312 electroless, 317 silicon, 313 Etch-pit density (EPD), 252 Eulerian-Eulerian model, 92 Extended defects, 496, 498, 512 metal interaction with, 520528 External quantum efﬁciency (EQE), 427, 428, 715, 725, 728, 730, 735, 737, 742, 746, 748, 749 F F, 295 Face-centered-cubic (fcc) lattices, 544 Facet plane, 196, 199, 200 Finite-difference time-domain (FDTD), 779 Finite element calculations, 383 Fixed abrasive(s), 366 sawing, 284, 287, 297, 302, 306 Flexible solar laminates, 685 Floating zone (FZ) method, 226 Float zone, 1315, 66 Float zone silicon (FZ-Si), 404 Fluidized bed reactor (FBR), 73, 627 bed pressure drop, 7576 Geldart classiﬁcation, 75 heat transfer, 7677 industrial applications, 7779 MGS conversion to polysilicon, 80 minimum bubbling velocity, 74 minimum ﬂuidization gas velocity, 74 polysilicon production, 79 slugging beds, 76 Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectra B-doped Si NCs, 938 Si QDs with Cl, O and H, 943 Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), 402, 403, 407, 412, 422, 432 Fourth-order Runge-Kutta scheme, 442 Fracture strength, 382385 Full width at half maximum (FWHM), 782 Functional grain boundaries, 225, 620 G Gas-phase approaches, 934 Geometrically necessary dislocations (GNDs), 781 Gettering, 176, 182, 183 classiﬁcation, 529 external, 497 intrinsic, 497 metal impurities, 528533 relaxation, 529 segregation, 530 Global simulation of carbon impurity, see Carbon impurity, in crystalline silicon Glow discharge, 643, 644, 646, 650651 Gold, 513 Graded-sized nc-Si, 847, 861, 864, 872, 874 Grain boundaries, 185 characterization, 600 decoration with impurity atoms, 596598 deﬁnition, 591 directional solidiﬁcation (see Directional solidiﬁcation) and dislocations, 599 electronic material properties, 607609 energy, 596597 impact on electronic properties, 598 optical grain detection and analysis, 601605 orientation mapping, 605607 properties of, 596599 types of, 593595 Grain detector, 607 Granular silicon, 79, 88, 96, 102 Index 961 H HasenAlexanderSumino model, 225 Heterogeneous nucleation, 613 Heterojunction interdigitated back-contact (HJ-IBC) technology, 767 High efﬁciency solar cells, 170 High-performance multi-crystalline silicon, 175, 179 High-purity Si dislocation velocity, 548550 plastic deformation and yield strength, 550553 High temperature vapor phase epitaxy, 766 Hirth-Lothe kink diffusion model, 553555 Hot wire chemical vapor deposition (HWCVD), 768770 Hydrochlorination, 63 Hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H), 694, 695, 697, 699, 701, 710, 713, 714, 719, 720, 722, 725, 732, 733, 735, 737, 740, 744, 745, 747751 absorption coefﬁcients, 658660 atomic structure model, 656 conductivity, 669670 dark conductivity, 664667 DC-PECVD, 643646 how wire CVD, 652654 infrared absorption, 661 microwave PECVD, 651 multi-junction solar cell, 682685 n-i-p single-junction solar cell, 679 photoconductivity, 668669 photoluminescence, 660 p-i-n single-junction solar cell, 677678 Raman spectra, 663664 RF PECVD, 646 single-junction solar cell, 675677 Staebler-Wronski effect (see Staebler- Wronski effect) VHF PECVD, 648 Hydrogenated microcrystalline silicon (μc-Si:H) early stage, 694 electronic properties of, 701704 optical properties of, 704708 in solar cells (see Solar cells, μc-Si:H) structure properties of, 695701 Hydrogenated microcrystalline silicon germanium (μc-SiGe:H), 736 Hydrogen chloride (HCL), preparation of, 3942 Hydrogen collision model, 671 Hydrogen-enhanced dislocation glides, 569570 Hydrogen passivation, 497, 533538 I Impurity, 695, 708, 714719, 732, 751, 752 concentrations, 142 oxygen, 146 segregation coefﬁcients, 144 Impurity effects on dislocation activities, crystalline silicon, see Dislocations, crystalline silicon Incubation phase, 801 Indentation, 372, 376378 Infrared (IR) absorption, 661663 Infrared laser scattering tomography (IR-LST), 411 Inkjet printing of Si-QD ink, 939 In situ observation, 194, 196, 199, 200 Interstitial oxygen, 1921 Interstitial oxygen, in silicon diffusivity and solubility, 401402 interstitial oxygen concentration, measurement of, 402 oxygen dimers, 403404 in solar silicon materials, 404 K Kikuchi diffraction pattern, 605 Knoop test, 376 L Large angle grain boundaries, 593, 595, 602, 625 Large area uniformity, 654 Large diameter, 241 Laue scanner method, 606607 LaWave method, 368 Lifetime, 177, 180, 182, 184, 187, 429, 431, 433, 497, 653, 668, 671 of charge carriers, 408409, 423426 on excitation level, 508 killer, 538 maps, 507 in solar cell, 532 Lift-off and transfer of poly-Si thin ﬁlms, 774 Light beam induced current (LBIC), 581 Light-induced-degradation (LID) Czochralski silicon, 148 Ge-doped CZ silicon crystals, 166 962 Index Light management, 864 Light trapping, 695, 725735, 740, 743, 744, 752 effect, 868, 870, 872 structure, 759, 761, 772, 776, 778, 780, 784 technology, for poly-Si thin ﬁlm solar cells, 775 Liquid phase crystallization (LPC), 760, 764766, 773, 780, 782, 784, 787 Localized surface plasmon resonance, 937 Local quantum efﬁciency, 581 Loose abrasive, 274 sawing, 276, 285, 297, 302 Low cost silicon wafers, 153 Low pressure chemical vapor deposition (LP-CVD), 731, 766 Low-temperature region, 236 M Manganese, 514 Mechanical strength, 161 Melt growth, 236 See also Noncontact crucible (NOC) method Metal assisted chemical etching (MACE), 776, 777, 889 Metal induced crystallization (MIC), 762 Metal interaction, with extended defects, 520528 Metallic impurities and surface metallic contamination, 2933 Metallurgical grade silicon (MGS), 72, 80 secondary reﬁning of, 112 smelting of, 110111 Meyer-Nedel rule, 665 Microcrystalline silicon (μc-Si), 796 Microstructure factor, 662, 802 Microwave detected photoconductivity (MDP), 608 Microwave PECVD, 651 Minority carrier lifetime, 257 Mobility, 664667 Moderate/low temperature vapor phase epitaxy, 767 Modiﬁed EMA model, 852 Mono-like Si growth method advantages and disadvantages, 219220 functional grain boundaries, 225228 large rectangular seed crystals, 232 mushroom-type interface growth, 232 seed growth, 217218 SMART, 228 using seed partitions, 231 without seed joints, 232 with special grain boundaries, 230 Mott-CFO model, 657 Multi-crystalline silicon (mc-Si), 179, 404, 409, 417, 418, 429, 431, 433, 590, 592 dislocation behavior in, 579580 growth in ambient nitrogen, 485490 silicon nitride precipitates (see Silicon nitride precipitates) soluble nitrogen, 478481 Multi-junction, 722, 725, 734, 737, 738, 744, 747 thin ﬁlm, 695 Multiphase ﬂow with interphase exchange (MFIX), 93 Multiple trapping, 666 Multi-scale modeling, 94 Multi wire sawing, 271, 303, 307 Mushroom-type interface growth, 232 N Nanocrystalline silicon, 807, 885 Nanostructured silicon, 893, 928 Navier-Stokes equations, 442 Nc-Si:H solar cells, 798 Nc-SiOx:H solar cells, 742, 745, 746 Neutron activation method, 29 New donors (NDs), 405, 408 n-i-p solar cells, 715, 717, 725, 735, 740, 747, 749, 752 Nitrogen doping, 464 Noncontact crucible (NOC) method, 236 applications, 261264 characteristics and merits, 241 conversion efﬁciency, 261 furnace design, 238241 growth mechanisms, 236238 growth rate of Si ingots, 242247 Nonthermal plasma synthesis, 934 Non-wetting, 210 Nucleation, 427, 429, 433 curves, 416417 of oxide precipitates, 413416 O Oxide precipitates, 401, 403, 406, 408, 410, 417, 422, 429, 431, 433 charge carriers, lifetime of, 423426 detection of, 411413 nucleation of, 413416 Index 963 Oxygen precipitation boron, 431 carbon, 429 charge carriers, lifetime of, 423426 detection of oxide precipitates, 411413 hydrogen, 432 nitrogen, 431 nucleation curves, 416417 nucleation of oxide precipitates, 413416 numerical simulation of, 417419 solar cells, performance of, 426428 vacancies and oxygen in silicon, interaction of, 421423 vacancy concentration, in solar silicon, 419421 P Particle(s), 380 Particle-in-cell method, 93 Paschen curve, 644 Passivated emitter and rear contact (PERC), 430 PECVD, see Plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD) Peierls potential, 544, 553, 555 Photo-carrier recombination processes, 660 Photoconductivity, 805 Photoluminescence (PL), 411, 608, 660661 spectra of Si QDs, 937 Photovoltaics, 130, 147, 880, 892, 895, 924, 928 Physical vapor deposition (PVD), 765, 771 p-i-n solar cells, 715, 716, 725, 728, 732, 735, 737, 740, 743, 745, 747, 749, 752 Plasma-assisted VLS growth, 898 Plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (PECVD), 641, 694, 695, 709, 739, 751, 761, 762, 765, 770771, 882, 897 direct current, 643 microwave, 651652 radio frequency, 646647 RF PECVD, 738 very high frequency, 648651 VHF PECVD, 738, 740, 752 Polycrystalline silicon (poly-Si) thin ﬁlm solar cells absorber thickness, 785 fabrication processes, 786 junction type, 785 lift-off and transfer of, 774775 light trapping technology, 775780 LPC, 764, 784, 785 main processes, 785 maximum efﬁciency, 785 quality characterization of, 780784 seed layer techniques, 773774 SPC, 761763 VPD, 766773 Polymorphous silicon thin ﬁlm, solar cells, 882888 Polysilicon, 38, 79, 8687 ambient air test method, 35 atomic carbon content, 2224 carrier lifetime, 2429 conductivity, 1719 donors and acceptors test methods, 1617 ﬂoat-zone method for characterization, 1315 high pure water test method, 35 high purity gas test method, 35 interstitial oxygen, 1921 metal impurity vs. TCS quality, 43 metallic impurities and surface metallic contamination, 2933 metallurgical grade silicon test methods, 34 packaging material test method, 35 production and materials characterization, 13 requirement in solar applications, 13 resistivity, 19 trichlorosilane, 34 Puriﬁcation, silicon, 121 Purities removal, 110 Q Quantum efﬁciencies (QE), 717, 718 Quantum size effect, 846 Quasi-mono method, 216 Quasi-mono technology, 618 R Radial junction performance, tilting on, 918923 Radial junction solar cells, 888, 894, 896, 898, 905, 907, 909, 911, 913, 918, 919, 922, 925, 926 Radial p-n junction solar cells, 890892 Radio frequency-plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition (RF-PECVD), 770, 771, 774 Raman scattering, 781 Raman spectroscopy, 696698, 800 Random grain boundaries, 634 Rapid thermal anneal (RTA) process, 761 964 Index Real time spectroscopic ellipsometry (RTSE), 701 Recombination-enhanced dislocation glides (REDG), 567569 Recombination tunnel-junction (RTJ), 683 Recycling, 270, 275, 280, 297, 298, 302, 303, 306 Reﬁning metallurgical grade silicon, 112116 plasma, 120121 solvent, 116117 vacuum, 117119 Residual stress, 237 Resistivity, 19 Resonant absorption, in radial junction units, 913, 914, 917 Ribbon grown on substrate (RGS), 410 Rigorous coupled-wave analysis (RCWA), 779 Roughness, 363367 S Scanning electron microscopy (SEM), 730, 731, 733, 734 Scanning infrared reﬂection explorer (SIREX) method, 369 Scanning TEM (STEM), 411 Scratching, 378382 Seed cast, 216 Seed layer technique, 763, 773 Seed manipulation for artiﬁcially controlled defects technique (SMART), 228229 Segregation theory, 142 Self-interstitials, 407, 413, 419, 420, 431 Self-seeding, 613 Shockley partial dislocations, 544, 545, 554, 557, 575 Shockley-Queisser (S-Q) detailed-balance model, 796 Si-based tandem solar cell, 845 Siemens (SIE) process, 38, 39, 58, 60, 67, 81, 627 advantages, 82 vs. ﬂuidized bed reactor, 8385 operational difﬁculties, 82 Silane based ﬂuidized bed reactor agglomeration of silicon particle, 99 chemical reactions, 87 designs for heating, 9799 distributor and jet nozzles, 9697 feed gas to, 95 homogeneous, heterogenous and scavenging reactions, 8789 modeling, 8995 preheater, feed gas, 96 reactor dimensions, pressure, 99 research and development, 103106 safety issues, 103 silicon deposition removal on reactor wall, 102 silicon particle size distribution, 100101 silicon powder formation and handling, 101 Silica crucible and graphite susceptor, carbon impurities chemical reaction model, 457458 crucible reaction, effect of, 458459 origin of, 456457 Silicon, 194, 196, 198, 199 atoms, 501 intrinsic, 500 n-type, 530 recycling, 303 self-interstitials, 502 transition metal point defects in, 498 wafers, 270, 274, 283, 350, 385 Silicon-based radicals, 810 Silicon carbide (SiC) particles, 438, 451, 456 Silicon nanowires (SiNWs) characteristics, 880 in CVD system, 893896 etching formation, 889891 solar cells, 888928 Silicon nitride precipitates electric properties of cell performance, 484485 formation, 482484 wafering of mc-Si bricks, 483484 Silver, 513 Si nanowires (Si NWs), 867, 869, 872 Single crystalline Si ingots, growth method for, see Mono-like Si growth method Si/SiC multilayers, 847, 849, 851, 853, 855 Si single crystals, 247 Size-controllable nc-Si material, 846 Size-controllable nc-Si/SiC multilayers, 859 Size-dependent photovoltaic properties, 855864 Slurry, 274, 276, 278, 280, 286, 287, 291, 293, 297, 298, 307, 363, 390 sawing, 274 SiC, 391393 Small angle boundaries, 221, 223 Small angle grain boundary (SAGB), 593, 611, 619 Small angle X-ray scattering (SAXS) measurements, 715 Index 965 SMART-approach, 625 Smooth anti-reﬂective three-dimensional (SMART) texture, 780 Solar cell(s), 146, 148, 150, 168, 258261, 845 hetero-junction, 851, 855, 856, 860 Si QDs and carbon nanostructures, 951952 Si QDs/ P3HT, 940944 Si QDs/P3HT/PCBM ternary hybrid, 948 Si QDs/PTB7, 945 Si QDs-sensitized, 953955 Si-wafer-based, 937940 standard, 846 structure, 846 See also Czochralski silicon Solar cells, μc-Si:H a-Si:H, 747 crystalline evolution and hydrogen dilution proﬁle, 709714 doped layer, 740744 highest efﬁciency single junction, 746747 high rate deposition, 737740 impurity issue and controlling, 714 interface layers, 744746 light induced metastability, 719725 light trapping, 725 microcrystalline silicon germanium alloy, 735737 Solar grade silicon, 110 Solidiﬁcation, puriﬁcation by, 123124 Solid phase crystallization (SPC), 760, 761 MIC, 762763 thermal, 761762 Split seeds, 621 Square-shaped single ingots, 248 Staebler-Wronski effect, 670671 charge transfer model, 671 hydrogen collision model, 671 light induced structure changes, 672 Si-Si weak-bond breaking model, 671 STC hydrogenation, 38, 60, 6064, 61 Stokes shift, 661 Structured wires, 281, 283, 287, 306, 365366, 373, 390 Submerged electric arc furnace, 110 Subsurface damage (SSD), 367376 Suzuki effect, 563564 T Tamman temperature, 100 Thermal donors (TDs) charge carriers, lifetime of, 408409 detection and measurement of, 407408 nature and types of, 405407 solar cell manufacturing, new donors in, 409410 Thermal solid phase crystallization, 761 Thickness variation, 361 Thin ﬁlm, 641, 646, 648, 684, 689 μc-Si:H (see Hydrogenated microcrystalline silicon (μc-Si:H)) Third generation technology, 845 Time-of-ﬂight (TOF) measurements, 704 Titanium, 512 Total variation diminishing (TVD), 442 Transition metals diffusion of, 500505 electrical properties in Si, 505514 on solar cell efﬁciency, 514520 solubility of, 497500 Transmission electron microscopy (TEM), 411, 698699 Transparent conducive oxide (TCO), 728, 731, 752 Transverse optical (TO) mode, 800 Trichlorosilane (TCS) decomposition and reduction, 4750 distillation and puriﬁcation system, 38, 42, 43 synthesis, 3842, 67 test methods, 34 Trichlorosilane based FB process, 86 Twin boundary(ies), 194, 199, 202, 205, 594, 609, 615, 629 Two-phase model, 89 U Ultraviolet-visible-near-infrared (UV-Vis-NIR) spectrophotometer, 804 Undercooling, 208, 213 Unidirectional solidiﬁcation furnace, 439, 441, 444, 459, 461 Urbach energy, 659 V Vacancy, 407, 413, 414, 416 interaction of, 421423 solar silicon, concentration in, 419421 Vapor-liquid-solid (VLS) mechanism, 893 Vapor phase deposition (VPD) high temperature, 766767 moderate/low temperature, 767771 physical vapor deposition, 771773 966 Index Vent gas recovery, 38, 44, 45, 52, 57, 59, 63 Vertical Bridgeman method, 217 W Wafering, 270, 272, 303, 304, 306 Wet-chemical treatment, 314, 316 Wire saw process, 66 X X-ray scattering (XRD), 696, 709 Z Zigzag faceted interface, 195, 199, 200 Zinc, 514 Index 967