190 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NANOTECHNOLOGY, VOL. 22, 2023 An Efﬁcient Light Trapping Method to Enhance the Efﬁciency of Thin Film Solar Cell Tauseef Ahmed , Student Member, IEEE, Syed Sadique Anwer Askari , and Mukul Kumar Das , Senior Member, IEEE AbstractAn efﬁcient light management technique is proposed and investigated by developing a TCAD model for microcrystalline silicon based thin ﬁlm solar cell. The model includes physical insight related to some optical phenomenon like scattering and diffusive reﬂection of light as well as some electrical phenomena like carrier transport at the heterointerfaces. Two different structures, which comprises of sawtooth and grating-type back nanotextured in combination with random front nano-textured absorber layers are considered in this work. It has been observed that sawtooth or grating type back nano-textured absorber layer results in enhanced absorption of incident photons as compared to the planar back absorber layer. Also, the grating type back-textured absorber pro- vides better performance compared to its sawtooth counterparts. Finally, the depth and period of grating are optimized in order to maximize the power conversion efﬁciency of grating-back-textured with random-front-textured absorber. The optimized structure results in an efﬁciency of 12.325% which corresponds to an im- provement of 3.975% compared to the random front and back nano-textured thin ﬁlm solar cell. Index TermsThin ﬁlm, sawtooth, grating, textured, absorber. I. INTRODUCTION L IGHT trapping and efﬁcient photon harvesting for thin ﬁlm solar cell is a promising research area [1], [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], [7], [8] due to its capability of enhancing short circuit current density (Jsc), open circuit voltage (Voc), conversion efﬁciency (η) and other parameters of solar cell. Texturization the absorber layer is the basic light management technique adopted in the ﬁeld of solar cell and it is a matured technology for enhancing the efﬁciency in the ﬁeld of c-Si based solar cell [9], [10]. Generally, the absorption capability of thin ﬁlm solar cell is very poor mainly due to the higher transmission in longer wavelength region and also texture with larger size in thin absorber layer could result in an increased oblique loss and degradation of the light trapping capability. It has also been found that Voc and FF degrades due to the unbalanced etching of amorphous and crystalline components of microcrystalline Manuscript received 24 February 2023; accepted 21 March 2023. Date of publication 27 March 2023; date of current version 7 April 2023. This work was supported by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), Govern- ment of India, through the Project, Establishment of Centres of Excellence under FAST: Centre of Excellence in Renewable Energy at IIT(ISM), Dhanbad, India, under Grant F.No.5-6/2013-TS-VII. The review of this article was arranged by Associate Editor C. W. Liu. (Corresponding author: Mukul Kumar Das.) The authors are with the Centre of Excellence in Renewable Energy (CERE), and Department of Electronics Engineering, IIT(ISM), Dhanbad, Jharkhand 826004, India (e-mail: tauseefahmed22@gmail.com; anwer.ism@gmail.com; mukulkdas@iitism.ac.in). Digital Object Identiﬁer 10.1109/TNANO.2023.3262367 silicon layer [1]. Thus, the same texturization technique is not be applicable for thin ﬁlm solar cell. Several light trapping mechanisms, including random nano-texturing, metallic nano particle plasmonic, photonic crystal etc., for thin ﬁlm solar cells have already been reported [1], [2], [3], [4], [5], [6], [7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13], [14]. In some previously reported works where the enhancement in short circuit current density was achieved through periodic grating at metallic back reﬂector but here parasitic absorption loss in metallic grating is also a limiting factor [2], [4], [5]. Moreover, a combination of Dis- tributed Bragg reﬂector and diffraction grating at the back side of solar cell was used in efﬁciency enhancement of thin ﬁlm solar cell. In some research works metallic nano particles [7], nano disc [11] were used to enhance the absorption of thin absorber layer by the LPP and surface plasmon resonance phenomenon, but here the probability of this guiding mechanism is reduced as the substrates refractive index is raised in case of metallic nano disc-based structure and parasitic absorption loss which arises from Ag nanoparticles affects overall photon to electron conversion process. However, a study has been reported which depicts the relationship between absorption enhancement and parasitic losses that occur in rear nanotextured back reﬂector and also found that by adopting a proper light trapping structure this parasitic loss can be reduced so that the light trapping mechanism can have positive impact on solar cell performance [8] There are other grating based structures such as periodic grating of nanowire [12] where the diffraction phenomenon is used, grating nanorod assembly [13] where guided mode resonance and microcavity effect are used, optical nano-antenna [14] as back contact where hybrid plasmonic travelling wave is induced to enhance the absorption efﬁciency of the thin ﬁlm solar cell. Here in case of optical nano-antenna some amount of ohmic loss is there due to modiﬁed structure of back contact [14]. Now, in terms of material choice for thin ﬁlm solar cell, microcrystalline silicon has many beneﬁts, such as a high carrier mobility, a broad spectral response (up to 1.1 eV), matured growth technology of silicon-based devices etc. This makes it a good choice for many optoelectronic applications, such as thin-ﬁlm transistors [15], [16], [17], solar cells [18], [19], [20], [21], [22] and optical sensors [23]. Also, it is worthy to mention that microcrystalline silicon can take a lot of light without breaking down, while a-Si:H breaks down when its exposed to light [24]. Thus, microcrystalline silicon (μc-Si) has been studied a lot to make thin-ﬁlm silicon solar cells, mostly 1536-125X  2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission. See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information. Authorized licensed use limited to: Lanzhou University. Downloaded on June 19,2025 at 06:51:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. AHMED et al.: EFFICIENT LIGHT TRAPPING METHOD TO ENHANCE THE EFFICIENCY OF THIN FILM SOLAR CELL 191 as the middle or bottom absorbers in double- or triple-junction solar cell. Now, the light management technique for μc-Si absorber based thin ﬁlm solar cell is important. Front-side texturing for better utilization of shorter wavelength photons is quite common concept. In order to reﬂect longer wavelength photons, back side texturing either at absorber layer or at metallic reﬂector is a useful technique. An earlier report of front and the rear contact textured with 1 μm thick μc-Si absorber solar cell showed an efﬁciency of 8.35% [10]. Towards the goal of increasing path length of longer wavelength photons, the use of random back textured absorber or textured metallic back reﬂector have also been reported. Scattering of light from the textured metallic reﬂector is mainly responsible for enhancing the path length of longer wavelength incident photons [25], [26]. But, in case of textured metallic reﬂector, performance is degraded mainly due to parasitic absorption loss [2], [5], [27]. So, the combination of back-textured absorber with planer metallic back reﬂector may be a prospective solution. This method is useful in enhancing the back scattering but without increasing the parasitic absorp- tion loss. In this work, we propose and investigate an efﬁcient light trapping structure for microcrystalline silicon based thin ﬁlm solar cell in which the random pyramidal nanotexturing is considered at the front side of absorber layer in order to facilitate the forward scattering of shorter wavelength photons and grating type of nanotexturing at the back side of absorber layer in order to facilitate enhanced backward scattering of longer wavelength photons. The proposed structure is expected to be capable of overcoming the parasitic absorption loss which is observed in case of textured metallic back reﬂector. Hence this structure is suitable for absorbing a wider range of spectrum. II. DEVICE STRUCTURE AND SIMULATION METHODOLOGY Four different structures for micro-crystalline silicon absorber based thin ﬁlm solar cell without and with different light- absorption enhancement mechanisms, are considered for the simulation, which are shown in the Fig. 1(a)(d). Fig. 1(a) shows the planer thin ﬁlm solar cell structure whereas Fig. 1(b)(d) shows different light trapping structure as illustrated in the caption of the ﬁgure. All the four structures follow a similar pattern in terms of different layers except the different types of texturization of absorber layer. These structures consist of an ITO layer (36 nm), a-Si:H based n+ emitter layer (20 nm), lightly doped p-type μc-Si:H based absorber layer (1.3 μm), an a-Si:H based intrinsic buffer layer (30 nm) for surface passivation and p+ BSF layer (30 nm) for reducing carrier recombination. Now, concerning the reduction of shorter wavelength absorption loss, a-Si is chosen as emitter layer instead of μc-Si due to wider band gap of the former and also the low temperature growth of thin a-Si layer is possible which lowers the thermal budget of solar cell fabrication [28]. Aluminum is used for the front contact and back contact of solar cell; the height and width of front contact are 0.2 μm and 0.05 μm respectively and the thickness of back contact is 0.04 μm. Here, the total width of the device is considered as 1 μm to save the time and complexity of simulation process and only one front contact per 1 μm width Fig. 1. Schematic structure of microcrystalline silicon based thin ﬁlm solar cell with (a) planar (b) random front textured and planer back (c) random front and sawtooth type back textured (d) random front and grating type back textured, absorber layer. of the device is considered. The proposed structure is assumed to be substrate-type concerning the ease of formation of front and back texturing compared to that for superstrate-type structure. Thus,theproposeddevicecaneasilybefabricatedonanyﬂexible substrate. Here, light is assumed to be illuminated from the front side at an angle 90. Authorized licensed use limited to: Lanzhou University. Downloaded on June 19,2025 at 06:51:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 192 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NANOTECHNOLOGY, VOL. 22, 2023 In this study, a TCAD device simulation model for those above structures has been developed by considering optical phe- nomenon like scattering and diffusive reﬂection and electrical phenomenon related to the carrier transport and recombination at the heterointerfaces. In the present simulation, photogenerated carriers are consid- ered to be separated out by drift-diffusion process. The conti- nuity equation [29], current density equations [30] for excess minority electrons, considering the non-uniform band structure, are respectively given as, 1 q dJn dx  n n0 τn  + Gn = 0 (1) Jn = kTLμnn qμnn   ψ + kTL q lnγn + χ q + kTL q lnNc  (2) Similarly for minority holes, the corresponding equations can be written as, 1 q dJp dx  p p0 τp  + Gp = 0 (3) Jp = kTLμpp qμpp   ψ kTL q lnγp + χ + Eg q kTL q lnNv  (4) where, Jn (Jp) is current density due to electrons (holes), τ n (τ p) is minority carrier recombination lifetime of electron (hole), Gn (Gp) is generation rate of electron (hole) which is wavelength dependent, χ is the position dependent electron afﬁnity, Eg is the position dependent bandgap, Nc (Nv) is effective density of states in conduction band (valence band), ψ is position depen- dent electrostatic potential, for Boltzmann statistics of carrier distribution, γn = γp = 1. For transport of carriers through the band offset due to het- erointerfaces, the thermionic emission model is considered in the present simulation. Thus, the current density equations for electron and hole at the heterointerfaces can be writes as [31], Jn = qvn1n1  0 exp  ΔEc kTL  + qvn2n2  0+ (5) Jp = qvp1p1  0 exp  ΔEv kTL  qvp2p2  0+ (6) where, vp1(vn1) and vp2(vn2) are thermal velocity of hole (elec- tron), n1(0), n2(0+), p1(0), p2(0+) are the electron and hole densities on each side of interface, ΔEC (ΔEV) in conduction (valance) band offset and TL is the lattice temperature. It is noteworthy to mention that the thermionic emission model is effective only for the transport of holes here. Because, holes experience the band offset (Valence Band offset) at a-Si/μc-Si interface whereas, electrons experience cliff-type band offset at the interface, which doesnt block the ﬂow of electrons. The ﬁrst terms in (2) and (4) represent diffusion current component which is proportional to the gradient of carrier con- centration and the second terms represent the drift component of current. Now the consistent solution of (1) and (2) provides the current component due to electron and similarly, the solution of (3) and (4) gives the current component due to hole. For computation of current components at the interfaces however, (5) and (6) instead of (2) and (4) respectively should be applied. Now, the effect of texturing mainly on optical generation and the effect of different interfaces on electrical characteristics can be incorporated through the use of suitable model for optical generation and for carrier recombination. Carrier recombination effect is reﬂected through the effective values of τ n and τ p in (1) and (3). Here, the Monte Carlo Ray Tracing method is used to sim- ulate the textured interfaces in the proposed structure, taking into account required optical phenomena like scattering and diffusive reﬂection at the textured interfaces. In this method, each ray is traced in its propagation direction until it strikes an interface. When an interface is encountered by the ray, the reﬂection and transmission spectra are calculated based on the optical properties (wavelength dependent n & k values) of different constituent layers which are provided as input to the simulator. Now from this reﬂection and transmission spectra, the absorption spectra is also calculated to obtain the generation proﬁles for electrons and holes. It may be mentioned here that the E-ﬁeld distribution proﬁles inside the textured absorber has also been obtained from the simulation. Noteworthy to mention that the optical properties (n & k) of μc-Si and a-Si are taken from the reported article [32], [33]. Now, concerning the transport of photogenerated minority carriersthroughdifferentinterfaces,bandoffsetsduetoheteroin- terfaces is revealed through the position dependent electrostatic potential term in (2) and (4). As already mentioned earlier that the transport of only holes may be affected by the valence band (VB) offset due to interface between a-Si and μc-Si for the structure under study. As reported earlier [34], [35], the hole ﬂow and hence device performance is not much affected by the valence band offset if it is less than 0.55 eV. Although the calcu- lated valance band offset for the present structure is observed to be 0.22 eV, the thermionic emission model is considered for hole transport at the interface through the use of current density (6). It is important to mention that the tunneling of holes is not considered due to large barrier width here. For recombination of generated carriers at the heterointerfaces during their ﬂow, models for trap-assisted minority carrier recombination namely Shockley Read Hall (SRH) recombination and AUGER recom- bination have been incorporated in the simulation. Moreover, bandgap narrowing model (BGN) and concentration dependent mobility model for heavily doped regions are considered in order to make the model more accurate. Now, the ﬁnal expression of total photocurrent (JL(λ)) at a given wavelength is obtained by summing the Jn(λ) and Jp(λ). Total photocurrent density (JL) is calculated by integrating JL(λ) over the wavelength range of solar spectrum. Finally, I-V characteristics is obtained by algebraic sum of dark current and photocurrent, which is given below [29], I = IS  exp qV kT  1  IL (7) Authorized licensed use limited to: Lanzhou University. Downloaded on June 19,2025 at 06:51:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. AHMED et al.: EFFICIENT LIGHT TRAPPING METHOD TO ENHANCE THE EFFICIENCY OF THIN FILM SOLAR CELL 193 where, IS is the diode saturation current and IL is the photogen- erated current derived from JL. From this I-V curve all the solar cell performance parameters namely open circuit voltage, short circuitcurrent,conversionefﬁciencyareobtained.Thisstudyhas been extended further to ﬁnd out an optimized structure of the textured geometry for enhancing the absorption of light. Finally, the optimized textured geometry is used in electrical simulation to examine the improvement in the performance parameters of solar cell like Jsc, Voc, η etc. III. ANALYSIS OF RESULTS First, we have simulated a planer microcrystalline silicon absorber based (1.3 μm thick) thin ﬁlm solar cell as shown in Fig. 1(a). It shows an efﬁciency of 7.79% with Jsc of 13.90 mA/cm2, and Voc of 726.81 mV. It may be mentioned here that the measured efﬁciency of 7.5% for planer thin ﬁlm solar cell with 2 μm thick microcrystalline silicon absorber was reported earlier [36]. The random front textured and planar back absorber, as illustrated in Fig. 1(b), showed an efﬁciency of 10.99% with Jsc of 18.37 mA/cm2 and Voc of 745.30 mV. This is substan- tial improvement in the performance compared to the planer structure. Indeed, while doing random texturing of absorber, either in front side or back side, surface area and hence surface re- combination are increased. Therefore, suitable texturing with optimized average surface morphology is important so that surface recombination does not predominate over the light scat- tering. But, surface recombination due to texturing of absorber is un-avoidable [37]. As a solution, surface passivation along with the texturing needs to be done [38]. Now, the type of surfacemorphologyaftertexturingultimatelydecideshowmuch absorption enhancement can be achieved. If pyramidal type of random texturing or sawtooth type of texturing is done at the back side of structure, then some percentage of light scatters in forward direction rather than going to the back direction and as a result, optical path length of incident radiation is reduced which decreases the absorption efﬁciency. In order to reduce the forward scattering if some rectangular type of texturing such as grating is done at the back side of absorber layer, then it can enhance the back scattering of longer wavelength photons resulting in higher absorption efﬁciency. The above statement is veriﬁed by carrying out Monte-Carlo ray tracing simulation using Silvaco TCAD software in the present work. First of all, we have simulated structures consid- ering two types of back texturing, one is random pyramidal type and another is the sawtooth type [39] with random front textured surface. It has been observed that random pyramidal back-side and sawtooth type back-side texturing results in an efﬁciency of 11.151% and 11.25% respectively. So, it indicates that random pyramidal type back-side texturing enhances forward scattering of longer wavelength photons while sawtooth type back-side texturing somehow reduces the forward scattering which results in higher efﬁciency. This can be conﬁrmed by comparing electric ﬁeld distributions given in the Fig. 2(c) and (d), where area coverage of electric ﬁeld distribution is more in case of sawtooth type back textured absorber layer. Now, this pyramidal type of Fig. 2. Electric ﬁeld distribution in x direction of (a) planer (b) random pyramidal front textured and planer back (c) random pyramidal front and back textured (d) random pyramidal front and sawtooth type back textured and (e) random pyramidal front and grating type back textured absorber layer based thin ﬁlm structure. texturing falls under random light trapping category and saw- tooth type of texturing comes under deterministic light trapping category. While comparing the path length distributions of deter- ministic light trapping and Lambertian or random light trapping, it is shown that the deterministic light-trapping scheme has a narrow path length distribution without any short length light paths. In particular, the deterministic light-trapping schemes minimum path length is about 59 times the thickness of the solar cell. In contrast, the Lambertian or random light-trapping scheme shows a wide range of path lengths, including very long paths but, more importantly, very short light paths that are as short as twice the thickness of the solar cell [40]. So, the deterministic light-trapping scheme works better than the Lambertian or random light-trapping. Now, sawtooth type is compared with grating type back textured surface. In both cases, random front textured surface is considered as shown in the Fig. 1(c) and (d). It has been observed that grating type of back texturing is more effective as compared to sawtooth type of back texturing as it enhances back scattering of longer wavelength photons [26] and reduces forward scatter- ing which increases the path length incident photons. As a result, grating type of back textured structure results in an efﬁciency of 11.31% while sawtooth type of back textured structure results in an efﬁciency of 11.25% and the efﬁciency is lowered due Authorized licensed use limited to: Lanzhou University. Downloaded on June 19,2025 at 06:51:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 194 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NANOTECHNOLOGY, VOL. 22, 2023 to enhanced forward scattering at the back side of absorber layer. This enhanced forward scattering increases transmission which reduces coupling of incident solar radiation with the absorber layer at the back side of absorber layer. To enhance the absorbance of double textured absorber layer enhanced forward scattering and reduced back scattering are needed at the front side, and for the back side enhanced back scattering and reduced forward scattering are needed. So, a careful texturization method is needed for enhancing the efﬁciency of thin ﬁlm solar cell with double sided textured absorber layer. In Fig. 2, electric ﬁeld distributions are shown for different types of structures. Generally, the electric ﬁeld is present in both x and y directions. However, for obtaining better visibility of electric ﬁeld contour, x direction is chosen over y direction and the visibility in y direction is not as clear as x direction because it is observed that electric ﬁeld variation in y direction is less compared to x direction. That is why the electric ﬁeld contour is considered in the x direction to properly investigate the effect of back texturing and different parameter of a particular back texturized structure on the performance of solar cell. It can be seen from Fig. 2(a) and (b) that due to random front texturing, enhanced electric ﬁeld distribution occurs at the front side of the structure which corresponds to enhanced absorption of shorter wavelength photons whereas in case of planer structure there is no such enhanced electric ﬁeld distribution at the front side. Now, to enhance the absorption of longer wavelength incident photons, back texturing is done as shown in the Fig. 2(c)(e), which results in enhancement of path length of longer wave- length photons by the scattering phenomenon and electric ﬁeld distribution at the back side of the absorber layer is due to this back texturing. Comparing Fig. 2(b) with (c)(e) it has been observed that electric ﬁeld distribution at the planer back surface is much less than the texturized back surface. So, when back texturing is done, then the area coverage of electric ﬁeld distribution is very much increased which results in enhanced absorption of longer wavelength photons. Now, the structures shown in Fig. 2(c)(e) are compared. It has been observed that grating type back textured structure offers more area coverage of electric ﬁeld distribution than the other two types of back textured structures. As a result, grating type back textured structure offers enhanced backscattering of longer wavelength photons, and this enhances the optical path length of longer wavelength photons. So, the absorption capability of p-type microcrystalline silicon-based absorber layer can be increased by doing random texturing at front side and grating texturing at the back side of the absorber layer. Now, a diffusive reﬂection model is included for textured interface while computing the reﬂection, absorption, and trans- mission. When the light is incident on textured interface, two types of reﬂection occur, one is specular reﬂection and another is diffusive reﬂection. However, the fraction of specular reﬂection is less in case of textured interface while the fraction of diffusive reﬂection is more which facilitates the scattering of incident photons in different directions and the light scattering at a diffusive interface is beneﬁcial for improving the path length of incident photons. TABLE I PERFORMANCE PARAMETERS OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF STRUCTURES FOR THIN FILM SOLAR CELL The distribution of reﬂected beams from the textured interface depends on the scattering function, which could be Lambertian, Gaussian or Lorentzian type and the chosen scattering function regulates the direction of scattered rays. Since the interface is highly diffusive, Lorentz distribution function is used in the present simulation and the scattering function is expressed as [41], F (ϕ) = σ π (σ2 + ϕ2) (8) where, σ is the dispersion parameter which deﬁnes spread of diffusive reﬂection and ϕ is the dispersion angle. It is important to mention here that, if the diffusive reﬂection model is speci- ﬁed for a particular textured surface, the structures reﬂection, transmission, and absorption spectra do not include the effect of those layers which are below to that textured layer. Here, the diffusive reﬂection is considered at the back textured surface of the absorber layer. So, it doesnt include the absorption of BSF and back electrode layer. In Fig. 3, a comparison of reﬂectance, transmission and absorption has been done for the three types of structure as shown in Fig. 2(b), (d) and (e). It is observed from Fig. 3(a) that due to the planer back surface reﬂection is very much increased in longer wavelength region, which indicates that incident light is not efﬁciently trapped in that wavelength region. Now due to back texturized surface overall reﬂection of the structure is very much reduced due to scattering phenomenon. In Fig. 3(b), it has been observed that in longer wavelength region transmission is higher in case of planer back surface structure. However, that transmission can be reduced by the back-side texturing method adopted in this literature. It can be seen from Fig. 3(b) that transmission is very much reduced in the case of back texturized structure. So, due to this reduced reﬂectance and transmission, absorption is higher in case of back texturized structure which can be clearly seen in Fig. 3(c). Now, from Fig. 3(a)(c), it has been observed that the grat- ing type back textured structure offers minimum reﬂectance, transmission and maximum absorption in longer wavelength range as compared to the other two types of structure and this reduced reﬂection and transmission is a result of enhanced back scattering and reduced forward scattering. So, grating type back textured structure is more efﬁcient in terms of back scattering of longer wavelength photons. Here, in Table I the performance parameters of different types of thin ﬁlm solar cell structures are given. Authorized licensed use limited to: Lanzhou University. Downloaded on June 19,2025 at 06:51:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. AHMED et al.: EFFICIENT LIGHT TRAPPING METHOD TO ENHANCE THE EFFICIENCY OF THIN FILM SOLAR CELL 195 Fig. 3. (a) Reﬂectance (b) transmission and (c) absorption vs wavelength comparison of random front textured and planer back, sawtooth type and grating type back textured absorber layer based thin ﬁlm solar cell structure. Fig. 4. Electric ﬁeld distribution along x direction of random front textured and grating type back textured absorber layer-based structure for a grating depth of (a) 20 nm (b) 50 nm (c) 100 nm (d) 150 nm (e) 200 nm and (f) 250 nm at a ﬁxed grating gap of 100 nm. Now, in order to further enhance the absorption capability of back grating textured thin ﬁlm solar cell, the depth and gap of the back grating should be optimized. At ﬁrst, six different depths of grating are taken into consideration such as 20 nm, 50 nm, 100 nm, 150 nm, 200 nm and 250 nm keeping gap constant at 100 nm. It is observed that at a grating depth of 250 nm random front textured and grating back textured absorber layer based solar cell results in an efﬁciency of 12.081% which is higher than all other considered values. In Fig. 4 electric ﬁeld distributions are given for all these considered values of grating depth and comparing those ﬁgures in Fig. 4, it has been observed that at a depth of 250 nm area coverage of electric ﬁeld distribution is maximum which implies to enhanced photo current density. So, in case of varying depth of back grating the depth must be higher in order to reduce reﬂection of longer wavelength photons which is effective for enhancing the back-scattering i.e., here the scattering angle increases with the depth which results in higher percentage of diffusive reﬂection and enhanced back scattering. Now, because of this enhanced back scattering maximum percentage of light is getting trapped inside the absorber layer [42]. As a result, more energy is concentrated in the grooves of the grating and enhances the absorption of absorber layer in longer wavelength region leading to enhanced photocurrent. This enhanced back scattering also enhances the coupling of incident light with quasi Authorized licensed use limited to: Lanzhou University. Downloaded on June 19,2025 at 06:51:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 196 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NANOTECHNOLOGY, VOL. 22, 2023 Fig. 5. VOC and JSC variation with depth of grating keeping gap ﬁxed at 100 nm. Fig. 6. Efﬁciency variation with depth of grating keeping gap ﬁxed at 100 nm. guided modes [43] which in turn increases the area coverage of electric ﬁeld distribution. Now, the effect of grating depth variation on different solar cell performance parameters are shown in the Figs. 5 and 6. From the Figs. 5 and 6 it can be seen that current density (JSC), open circuit voltage (VOC) and efﬁciency% (η%) increases with grating depth at a ﬁxed gap of 100 nm. So, when the depth of grating is increased more amount of light is getting reﬂected in oblique path due to diffusive reﬂection and getting trapped inside the absorber layer. As a result, absorption is increased and more number of photocarriers are generated. However, we consider grating depth up to 250 nm as the grating depth beyond 250 nm is practically not realizable for thin ﬁlm solar cell as due to decreasing thickness series resistance of absorber layer also increases which can decrease the ﬁll factor also. To observe the effect of grating depth on reﬂectance, trans- mittance, and absorption spectra, six different values of grating depth are considered such as 20 nm, 50 nm, 100 nm, 150 nm, 200 nm, and 250 nm. From Fig. 7(a) it has been observed that at a ﬁxed grating gap of 100 nm overall reﬂectance of the structure decreases with the depth of grating in longer wavelength region which is the clear indication that back scattering also increases with that parameter of grating. As the depth of grating increases maximum percentage of light is diffracted or scattered at an angle greater than the critical angle and reﬂected back into the Fig. 7. (a) Reﬂectance (b) transmission and (c) absorption vs wavelength of the thin ﬁlm structure at different depth of grating keeping gap ﬁxed at 100 nm. absorber layer by the total internal reﬂection. This grating scatter the incident light into quasi-guided modes or leaky modes in thin active layers, which is a more accurate description for thin active layers [44]. It is possible for incident light to couple into a variety of leaky modes throughout the absorption spectrum and this results in a broadening of absorption across a wide range of wavelengths. Aspects such as the shape, size, i.e gap, width, depth of grating all play a role in determining the efﬁciency of coupling of scattered light into quasi-guided modes [44]. Now, from Fig. 7(b) it has also been observed that overall transmission of the structure decreases with depth of grating in longer wavelength region and at a depth of 250 nm overall transmission is minimum which is suitable for getting the higher absorption of longer wavelength photons. From Fig. 7(c) it has been observed that due to decreasing nature of reﬂectance and transmission in longer wavelength range, absorption of the struc- ture increases with grating depth in that particular wavelength range. In Fig. 8 spectral response or External Quantum Efﬁciency of solar cell is shown at different values of grating depth. It has been observed that as the depth of grating increases the External Quantum Efﬁciency also increases. As we can see from Fig. 7(c) absorption increases with depth of grating and due to this, total available photocurrent also increases. Now, external quantum efﬁciency is ratio of available photocurrent to source current. So, EQE increases with the grating depth. In Fig. 6 efﬁciency is increased by 7% (from 11.27 to 12.08). It can be related to the increase in EQE shown in Fig. 8. absorption. It is observed that Jsc changes by 6.91% as JSC depends upon the EQE. From the simulated data, VOC changes by0.1832%andFFchangesby0.078%.Now,theefﬁciency depends upon the product of these three parameters, i.e., JSC, Authorized licensed use limited to: Lanzhou University. Downloaded on June 19,2025 at 06:51:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. AHMED et al.: EFFICIENT LIGHT TRAPPING METHOD TO ENHANCE THE EFFICIENCY OF THIN FILM SOLAR CELL 197 Fig. 8. External quantum efﬁciency vs wavelength at different depth of grating keeping gap ﬁxed at 100 nm. Fig. 9. VOC and JSC variation with gap of grating keeping ﬁxed depth of 250 nm. VOC and FF. So, the calculated percentage increase in efﬁciency is about 7%. For getting the fully optimized grating structure we have to vary the gap of grating keeping depth ﬁxed at optimized value i.e., 250 nm to ﬁnd at which value of gap performance of thin ﬁlm solar cell is maximum. For this, ﬁve different values of grating gap are considered such as 50 nm, 80 nm, 100 nm, 120 nm and 150 nm and to observe the effect of gap variation on different performance parameters such as current density, open circuit voltage,ﬁll factor, efﬁciency which are described below. From Figs. 9 and 10 it has been observed that at a gap of 120 nm the structure yields a maximum JSC (mA/cm2), VOC (mV) and efﬁciency% (η%) of 20.55, 746.24 and 12.325 respectively and here, JSC (mA/cm2), VOC (mV) and efﬁciency% (η%) are highest among the considered values of grating gap. This is also happened due to enhanced back scattering and at this gap value enhanced back scattering results in reﬂection at wider angles so that the light is totally internally reﬂected. If the light is totally internally reﬂected, then the reﬂection of longer wavelength photons which is measured at the front side of solar cell is less and also, the transmission from the back side is less. Therefore, this less reﬂectance and transmission results in enhanced path length of longer wavelength photons which is very much useful Fig. 10. Efﬁciency variation with gap of grating keeping depth ﬁxed at 250 nm. Fig. 11. Electric ﬁeld distribution in x direction of random front textured and grating type back textured absorber layer-based structure for a grating gap of (a) 50 nm (b) 80 nm (c) 100 nm (d) 120 nm (e) 150 nm at a ﬁxed grating depth of 250 nm. in increasing absorption capability of thin ﬁlm solar cell and this will be shown in Fig. 12. In Fig. 11 electric ﬁeld distributions are given for all these considered values of grating gap. After comparing those electric ﬁeld distributions, it has been found at a gap of 120 nm and depth of 250 nm electric ﬁeld distribution coverage area is maximum which is clearly shown in Fig. 11(d). This enhanced electric ﬁeld coverage area results in enhanced absorption and carrier generation and also it is a clear indication of back scattering with wider angular spread [45]. The interference patterns inside Authorized licensed use limited to: Lanzhou University. Downloaded on June 19,2025 at 06:51:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. 198 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON NANOTECHNOLOGY, VOL. 22, 2023 Fig. 12. (a) Reﬂectance (b) transmission (c) absorption vs wavelength of the thin ﬁlm structure at different gap of grating keeping depth ﬁxed at 250 nm. Fig. 13. External quantum efﬁciency vs wavelength at different gap of grating keeping depth ﬁxed at 250 nm. the absorber layer occurs due to the light scattering back and forth [11]. As a result, we get maximum current density, open circuit voltage and efﬁciency at this optimized depth and gap of grating which are clearly shown in Figs. 9 and 10. Now, the gap of back grating is varied keeping depth constant at 250 nm in order to see the effect on absorption, transmission and reﬂectance proﬁle of the structure as shown in Fig. 12. Since the variation in reﬂection, transmission etc. is insigniﬁcant in the shorter wavelength range, the study is restricted to the wavelength range of 0.61 μm to 1.21 μm. From Fig. 12(a) it has been observed that in longer wavelength range, reﬂectance decreases up to the gap value of 120 nm after that it increases. A similar trend is observed in case of transmission proﬁle as shown in Fig. 12(b). Because of the decreasing nature of reﬂectance and transmission proﬁles up to the gap value of 120 nm, absorption increases up to the gap value of 120 nm after that it decreases which is shown in Fig. 12(c). So, at a gap of 120 nm reﬂectance and transmission are at their minima which results in maximum absorption at this optimized gap value. Furthermore, it can be seen from Fig. 13 that the external quantum efﬁciency also increases as the gap of grating increases up to 120 nm, after which the EQE begins to decrease. This occurs as a result of increased conﬁnement of electric ﬁeld energy which is a clear indication of more percentage of light is getting trapped inside the absorber layer, but after the gap of 120 nm the total available area of the absorber layer is signiﬁ- cantly reduced and absorption decreases which is shown in the Fig. 12(c) and also in electric ﬁeld proﬁles shown in Fig. 11. So, the gap must be increased up to a certain point in order to prevent the total available area of the absorber layer from being reduced signiﬁcantly. As of now, the external quantum efﬁciency is deﬁned as the ratio of available photocurrent to the source current and the total available photocurrent varies in response to the absorption proﬁle of the structure, i.e an increased absorption proﬁle leading to increased available photocurrent. So, EQE changes similarly to the absorption proﬁle of the structure, and at a gap of 120 nm EQE will be at its maximum value. IV. CONCLUSION A novel light trapping mechanism to enhance the performance of thin ﬁlm microcrystalline silicon solar cell by reducing the parasitic absorption loss occurred in textured metallic back reﬂector is proposed and analyzed. Two different mechanisms, saw tooth type texturing and nano grating type structuring, for back-side of the absorber with the random nanotextured front surface for both the cases are considered in the anal- ysis. Front side nanotexturing is observed to be responsible for enhancement of shorter wavelength photons by means of forward scattering as a usual technique. For improvement of absorption of light at longer wavelength, both the nanotexturing and grating structuring are useful. But, the nano-grating type back structuring of absorber with metallic back reﬂector offers enhanced back scattering as compared to the former. However, optimization of grating structure in terms of depth and gap (period) is crucial for obtaining substantial amount of absorption enhancement which ultimately results in an improved efﬁciency of the solar cell. It has been found that, for an optimized gap and depth of 120 nm and 250 nm respectively, it yields a maximum absorption which also results in maximum current density, open circuit voltage and efﬁciency of solar cell. It has also been found that all the performance parameters namely, Jsc, Voc, and η increase with the depth of grating structure up to a particular value, i.e., 120 nm. Beyond this, a decreasing nature is observed and the nature is observed to be valid for all values of grating period. Finally, it has been found that the grating structure with optimum dimension at the back side with random nanotexturing in the front side of absorber is the efﬁcient method for signiﬁcantly enhancing the efﬁciency of thin-ﬁlm solar cells. Authorized licensed use limited to: Lanzhou University. Downloaded on June 19,2025 at 06:51:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply. AHMED et al.: EFFICIENT LIGHT TRAPPING METHOD TO ENHANCE THE EFFICIENCY OF THIN FILM SOLAR CELL 199 REFERENCES [1] K. Ishizaki, A. Motohira, M. De Zoysa, Y. Tanaka, T. Umeda, and S. Noda, Microcrystalline-silicon solar cells with photonic crystals on the top surface, IEEE J. Photovolt., vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 950956, Jul. 2017. [2] S. Solntsev, O. Isabella, D. Caratelli, and M. Zeman, Thin-ﬁlm silicon solar cells on 1-D periodic gratings with nonconformal layers: Optical analysis, IEEE J. Photovolt., vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 4652, Jan. 2013. [3] H. Sai, H. Jia, and M. Kondo, Impact of front and rear texture of thin-ﬁlm microcrystalline silicon solar cells on their light trapping properties, J. Appl. Phys., vol. 108, no. 4, Aug. 2010, Art. no. 044505. [4] A. Pahuja, M. S. Parihar, and D. K. V, Performance enhancement of thin ﬁlm solar cell using two-dimensional plasmonic grating in rear electrode, IEEE Trans. Nanotechnol., vol. 18, pp. 626634, Jun. 2019. [5] S. Saravanan and R. S. Dubey, Study of ultrathin-ﬁlm amorphous silicon solar cell performance using photonic and plasmonic nanostructure, Int. J. Energy Res., vol. 46, no. 3, pp. 25582566, Sep. 2021. [6] N.-N. Feng et al., Design of highly efﬁcient light-trapping structures for thin-ﬁlm crystalline silicon solar cells, IEEE Trans. Electron. Devices, vol. 54, no. 8, pp. 19261933, Aug. 2007. [7] E. Thouti, A. K. Sharma, and V. K. Komarala, Role of textured silicon surface in plasmonic light trapping for solar cells: The effect of pyramids width and height, IEEE J. Photovolt., vol. 6, no. 6, pp. 14031406, Nov. 2016. [8] C. E. R. Disney, S. Pillai, and M. A. Green., The Impact of parasitic loss on solar cells with plasmonic nano-textured rear reﬂectors, Sci. Rep., vol. 7, Oct. 2017, Art. no. 12826. [9] A. Tamang et al., On the potential of light trapping in multiscale textured thin ﬁlm solar cells, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells, vol. 144, pp. 300308, Jan. 2016. [10] A. Tamang et al., Enhanced photon management in silicon thin ﬁlm solar cells with different front and back interface texture, Sci. Rep., vol. 6, Aug. 2016, Art. no. 29639. [11] C. Rockstuhl and F. Lederer, Photon management by metallic nanodiscs in thin ﬁlm solar cells, Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 94, no. 21, May 2009, Art. no. 213102. [12] Y. H. Ye, C.-C. Chin, and D.-W. Huang, Enhanced conversion efﬁciency for solar cells with periodic grating of nanowires, IEEE Photon. J., vol. 5, no. 5, Oct. 2013, Art. no. 8400709. [13] Z. Jia, Q. Cheng, J. Song, M. Si, and Z. Luo, Optical properties of a grating-nanorod assembly structure for solar cells, Opt. Commun., vol. 376, pp. 1420, May 2016. [14] F. Taghian and V. Ahmadi, and L. Youseﬁ, Enhanced thin solar cells using optical nanoantenna induced hybrid plasmonic travelling-wave, IEEE J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 34, no. 4, pp. 12671273, Feb. 2016. [15] I. C. Cheng and S. Wagner, Hole and electron ﬁeld-effect mobilities in nanocrystalline silicon deposited at 150C, Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 80, no. 3, pp. 440442, Jan. 2002. [16] C.-H. Lee, A. Sazonov, and A. Nathan, High-mobility nanocrystalline silicon thin-ﬁlm transistors fabricated by plasma-enhanced chemical vapor deposition, Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 86, no. 22, May 2005, Art. no. 222106. [17] K.-Y. Chan, D. Knipp, A. Gordijn, and H. Stiebig, High-mobility micro- crystalline silicon thin-ﬁlm transistors prepared near the transition to amor- phous growth, J. Appl. Phys., vol. 104, no. 5, Sep. 2008, Art. no. 054506. [18] H. Sai, T. Matsui, and K. Matsubara, Key points in the latest developments of high-efﬁciency thin-ﬁlm silicon solar cells, Phys. Status Solidi A, vol. 214, Sep. 2017, Art. no. 1700544. [19] A. Wang and G. Lucovsky, Intrinsic microcrystalline silicon deposited by remote PECVD: A new thin-ﬁlm photovoltaic material, in Proc. IEEE Conf. Photovolt. Specialists, 1990, vol. 2, pp. 16141618. [20] R. W. Collins et al., Evolution of microstructure and phase in amorphous, protocrystalline, and microcrystalline silicon studied by real time spec- troscopic ellipsometry, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells, vol. 78, no. 14, pp. 143180, Jul. 2003. [21] M. Fonrodona et al., Progress in single junction microcrystalline silicon solar cells deposited by hot-wire CVD, Thin Solid Films, vol. 501, no. 1/2, pp. 247251, Apr. 2006. [22] T. Matsui, A. Matsuda, and M. Kondo, High-rate microcrystalline silicon deposition for pin junction solar cells, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells, vol. 90, no. 18/19, pp. 31993204, Nov. 2006. [23] A. Khosropour and A. Sazonov, Microcrystalline silicon photodiode for large area NIR light detection applications, IEEE Electron. Device Lett., vol. 38, no. 2, pp. 225227, Feb. 2017. [24] M. Stuckelberger et al., Review: Progress in solar cells from hydro- genated amorphous silicon, Renewable Sustain. Energy Rev., vol. 76, pp. 14971523, Sep. 2017. [25] Q. Xu, C. Johnson, C. Disney, and S. Pillai, Enhanced broadband light trapping in c-Si solar cells using nanosphere-embedded metallic grating structure, IEEE J. Photovolt., vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 6167, Jan. 2016. [26] K. R. Catchpole and A. Polman, Design principles for particle plasmon enhanced solar cells, Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 93, no. 19, Nov. 2008, Art. no. 191113. [27] M. I. Hossain et al., Effect of back reﬂectors on photon absorption in thin- ﬁlm amorphous silicon solar cells, Appl. Nano-Sci., vol. 7, pp. 489497, Aug. 2017. [28] S. Dhar et al., Light trapping in a-Si/c-Si heterojunction solar cells by embedded ITO nanoparticles at rear surface, J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys., vol. 50, no. 49, Nov. 2017, Art. no. 495110. [29] S. M. Sze, Physics of Semiconductor Devices, 2nd ed. Hoboken, NJ, USA: Wiley, 1981. [30] M. S. Lundstrom and R. J. Schuelke, Numerical analysis of heterostruc- ture semiconductor devices, IEEE Trans. Electron. Devices, vol. 30, no. 9, pp. 11511159, Sep. 1983. [31] K. Yang, J. East, and G. Haddad, Numerical modeling of abrupt hetero- junctions using a thermionic-ﬁeld emission boundary condition, Solid- State Electron., vol. 36, no. 3, pp. 321330, Mar. 1993. [32] W. Raja et al., Broadband absorption enhancement in plasmonic nanoshells-basedultrathinmicrocrystalline-Sisolarcells,Sci.Rep.,vol.6, Apr. 2016, Art. no. 24539. [33] D. T. Pierce and W. E. Spicer, Electronic structure of amorphous Si from photoemission and optical studies, Phys. Rev. B, vol. 5, Apr. 1972, Art. no. 3017. [34] V. A. Dao et al., Effect of valence band offset and surface passivation quality in the silicon heterojunction solar cells, J. Electrochem. Soc., vol. 158, no. 11, pp. H1129H1132, Oct. 2011. [35] L. Shen, F. Meng, and Z. Liu, Roles of the Fermi level of doped a-Si:H and band offsets at a-Si:H/c-Si interfaces in n-type HIT solar cells, Sol. Energy, vol. 97, pp. 168175, Nov. 2013. [36] O. Vetterl et al., Intrinsic microcrystalline silicon: A new material for photovoltaics, Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells, vol. 62, no. 1/2, pp. 97108, Apr. 2000. [37] K. R. McIntosh and L. P. Johnson, Recombination at textured silicon surfaces passivated with silicon dioxide, J. Appl. Phys., vol. 105, no. 12, Jun. 2009, Art. no. 124520. [38] R. S. Bonilla and P. R. Wilshaw, A technique for ﬁeld effect surface passivation for silicon solar cells, Appl. Phys. Lett., vol. 104, no. 23, Jun. 2014, Art. no. 232903. [39] K. Bittkau, S. A. Nadi, K. Ding, and U. Rau, Geometrical light trapping in thinc-Sisolarcellsbeyondlambertianlimit,inProc.IEEE46thPhotovolt. Specialists Conf., 2020, pp. 799802. [40] U. Rau, U. W. Paetzold, and T. Kirchartz, Thermodynamics of light management in photovoltaic devices, Phys. Rev. B, vol. 90, Jul. 2014, Art. no. 035211. [41] V. Zabelin, D. A. Zakheim, and S. A. Gurevich, Efﬁciency improvement of AlGaInN LEDs advanced by ray-tracing analysis, IEEE J . Quantum Electron., vol. 40, no. 12, pp. 16751686, Dec. 2004. [42] R. H. Franken et al., Understanding light trapping by light scattering textured back electrodes in thin ﬁlm n-i-p-type silicon solar cells, J. Appl. Phys., vol. 102, no. 1, Jul. 2007, Art. no. 014503. [43] J. Jang et al., Spectral modulation through the hybridization of Mie- scatterers and quasi-guided mode resonances: Realizing full and gra- dients of structural color, Amer. Chem. Soc. Nano, vol. 14, no. 11, pp. 1531715326, Oct. 2020. [44] S. B. Mallick, N. P. Sergeant, M. Agrawal, J. Y. Lee, and P. Peumans, Coherent light trapping in thin-ﬁlm photovoltaics, Mater. Res. Soc. Bull., vol. 36, no. 6, pp. 453460, Jun. 2011. [45] S. Mitra et al., Improvement of photon management in partial rear contact solar cells using a combination of DBR and Mie scatterer, Opt. Commun., vol. 397, pp. 19, Aug. 2017. Authorized licensed use limited to: Lanzhou University. Downloaded on June 19,2025 at 06:51:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.