Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 335 nature reviews materials https://doi.org/10.1038/s41578-025-00784-4 Review article Check for updates The state of the art in photovoltaic materials and device research Thomas Kirchartz 1,2 , Genghua Yan1, Ye Yuan1, Brijesh K. Patel3, David Cahen 4 & Pabitra K. Nayak 3 Abstract Photovoltaic (PV) technology is crucial for the transition to a carbon-neutral and sustainable society. In this Review, we provide a comprehensive overview of PV materials and technologies, including mechanisms that limit PV solar-cell and module efficiencies. First, we introduce the PV effect and efficiency losses within the framework of the ShockleyQueisser model for solar-to-electrical power conversion. However, all PV technologies fall short of these idealizations in various aspects, from incomplete sunlight absorption to the loss of photocurrent and photovoltage caused by the recombination of photogenerated charge carriers in the cells. Approaching the efficiency limits of PV technology requires material innovations and device designs that minimize these losses. Solar-cell research and development presents several solutions to these problems that are intimately related to the properties of the specific PV materials. To increase efficiencies beyond the ShockleyQueisser limit (around 33%) for a single junction, research has focused on producing multi-junction solar cells. Although these cells do provide higher efficiencies, there are differences in performance between individual cells and full modules in single-junction technologies when integrated into multi-junction configurations, highlighting the challenges in moving from laboratory experiments to commercial products. Sections Introduction Ideal solar cell Real-world solar cells and their losses Material properties for device application Device geometries and performance Selective contacts in PV Tandem and multi-junction solar cells Cell-to-module transition Outlook 1IMD-3 Photovoltaik, Forschungszentrum Jülich, Jülich, Germany. 2Faculty of Engineering and CENIDE, University of Duisburg-Essen, Duisburg, Germany. 3Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Hyderabad, India. 4Department of Molecular Chemistry and Materials Sciences, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovoth, Israel. e-mail: t.kirchartz@fz-juelich.de; david.cahen@weizmann.ac.il; pabitra.nayak@tifrh.res.in Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 336 Review article between untested hypotheses and models that have been rigorously tested. We thus aim to provide a well informed perspective on the role of PV in a sustainable future. In this Review, we provide an overview of PV from materials to cells and modules, which is intended for both scientists new to the field as well as for experts seeking up-to-date information. We aim to provide the necessary background knowledge to enable wise decision-making in matters concerning PV. First, we describe how an ideal solar cell works by introducing the basic mechanism of PV solar (radiation) energy to electrical energy conversion (Box 1). This model of an ideal solar cell serves as a reference for comparing performances across different PV technologies and for identifying dominant efficiency-limiting factors in different materials. These limits are related to the optical and electrical losses associated with each PV technology. The extent to which each of these losses affects the solar-cell or module performance depends on the properties of the materials and cell architectures used in different technologies. Thus, we introduce the material properties that most affect solar-cell performance and explain how they vary across different PV materi- als. We also discuss the use of multiple light-absorbing materials in a single cell. Finally, we discuss how the area of a PV device and the transition from laboratory-scale cells to commercial modules affect the resulting performance. In fact, the cell-to-module efficiency gap provides much stronger evidence for the maturity of a technology than laboratory cell-efficiency records. Using that reference, the substantially greater maturity of PV cells based on c-Si relative to all thin-film technologies becomes obvious. Ideal solar cell The maximum efficiency of a single-junction solar cell is typically described by the ShockleyQueisser (SQ) model27, which accounts for the fluxes of incoming and outgoing radiation (Box 2). These fluxes will be identical in thermodynamic equilibrium, owing to the principle of detailed balance (what comes in, goes out)28. Under normal PV cell operation, the absorbed photon flux will exceed the emitted photon flux. This imbalance allows the cell to generate a net flow of electrons at a non-zero voltage, providing electrical power to an external circuit. A solar cell can be operated at different currentvoltage combinations, depending on the load resistance of the circuit (Box 1). At open circuit no current flows and so no power is generated. The absorbed flux of photons leads to an equal flux of photons out of the device. Under these conditions, only the photon densities per unit time and area are equal but not the power densities. There is one working point, referred to as the maximum power point (MPP) (Box 2) where the power density Pout delivered to the circuit (that is, the product of the voltage Vmpp and the current density Jmpp) has a maximum value Pout = |Vmpp Jmpp|. At the MPP, the current density Jmpp is less than that at short-circuit ( JSC), because to generate a voltage, a non-equilibrium excess of electrons and/or holes is needed. In this case, not all photo generated carriers can be extracted as current (unlike at short circuit) and the photogenerated carriers that are not extracted determine the voltage at maximum power. The ratio of the power density Pout delivered to the circuit at the MPP and the power density Pin delivered by the incoming radiation is the power-conversion efficiency η = Pout/Pin. Even in an ideal case, effi- ciency does not approach unity, and the maximum efficiency under the SQ model for an AM1.5 G spectrum is about 33.7%. There are various mechanisms that cause this loss of about two-thirds of the available energy. The losses can be classified according to their cause or to Introduction Photovoltaics is a crucial electrical-power-generating component of the transition towards a carbon-neutral society1. During the first dec- ades of photovoltaic (PV) research and development, PV-generated electricity, compared to that of established nuclear or fossil-fuelled thermoelectric power plants, was much more costly2. However, cost reductions, improvements in relevant technologies and a growing awareness of the gap between the price paid and the true cost incurred of competing sources of electricity has since repositioned PV as a lead- ing technology. In many situations and climates, PV and wind are the cheapest options for new electrical power plants and have the lowest levelized cost of electricity36. Furthermore, if the correct ratio of installed generating capacity between wind and solar is used, the seasonal energy-supply profile can be fairly constant7,8, which is a key requirement for transforming the energy system without needing additional energy-storage capacities. Photovoltaics could also become a game changer for attaining global sustainability and climate-change mitigation, beyond the areas that it is usually associated with. For example, the climate-change mitigation potential of covering a given area of semi-arid land with PV panels is one to two orders of magnitude higher than covering it with a forest9. Although forests obviously have additional benefits, this result is striking and worthy of consideration for policymakers and planners. In another example, single-cell proteins (an important supplement to nutrition) are produced more efficiently by PV-driven combined syntheticbiological routes than by growing conventional crops10. Photovoltaics is now widely regarded as one of the cheapest and most powerful climate-change mitigation strategies and is commer- cially available at large (terawatt) scale. As of early 2025, nearly 2 TWp (terawatt peak) capacity of PV has been installed worldwide. Even though modules made from crystalline silicon (c-Si or just Si) dominate the market (97% at the end of 2023), important changes are needed to achieve the foremost goal of PV: to achieve even more power output per unit area, or in other words, higher efficiency. Module costs have become a minor part (2540%) of PV system costs5, so that only strategies that increase output per area remain via- ble. This is because the balance-of-system costs are now the largest cost of a PV system. Given that balance-of-system costs scale mostly per unit, and PV module costs scale per area, increasing module effi- ciency will decrease the cost of power output. The balance-of-system cost includes the cost of all components, equipment, structures and services required to establish a PV system for power generation, except for the PV module itself. Thus, the decades-old idea11,12 of combining high efficiencies with low energy investment (ideally translated to printable multi-junction devices) has moved over the past decade from concept to reality, at least on a laboratory scale. However, new problems have since arisen, such as the transfer of laboratory-scale fabrication processes to industrial-scale production environments13, the long-term stability dur- ing outdoor operation of most emerging PV materials and devices1418, and questions about circular economy19,20, recycling2123, resource efficiency24,25 and the energy used in the fabrication of the modules26. The scientific background behind PV is already well developed. At the same time, research on PV devices has produced several surpris- ing science and technology developments, especially in the past 5 years. Although many reviews cover individual aspects of PV, few provide an overview of the complete field, with its commercial and wider impli- cations. Our goal is to provide readers with the ability to distinguish between verified facts and speculative ideas, as well as to differentiate Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 337 Review article the mechanism by which the energy is eventually dissipated, so the explanations and terminologies of these losses differ somewhat across the literature. The relative contributions of the processes that lead to η  1, even in an ideal solar cell, can be illustrated in different ways (Fig. 1a,b). One way is to plot the fraction of power (showing the power-conversion losses), as a function of the threshold energy for photon absorption Eg (ref. 29) (Fig. 1a). This representation allows us to visualize that the two largest losses in the SQ model, namely the thermalization and non-absorption loss, depend strongly on the bandgap Eg. Ther- malization losses dominate for low-bandgap materials, whereas the non-absorption losses are most important for high-bandgap materials. The combined effect of all the losses leads to an optimum efficiency range for bandgaps (that is, the absorption thresholds) of 11.5 eV. In another representation of the power losses30, instead of the fraction of power, the photon flux  which is the current density if each photon with energy Eph  Eg is absorbed and creates one electronhole pair  is plotted on the y axis (Fig. 1b). This representation allows the transition between the available power density for a given bandgap (the area below the uppermost curve) and the currentvoltage curve to be illustrated. Figure 1c zooms in on the area of Fig. 1b, but with volt- age V instead of energy qV on the x axis. The figure contains the part of Fig. 1b needed to include the actual JV curve and shows how additional resistive, optical recombination or non-radiative recombination losses further decrease Vmpp and/or Jmpp. A key performance metric in solar cells is the fill factor (FF), which is the output power divided by the product JSCVOC (Box 2). Figure 1c illustrates how the FF is reduced below its SQ model value by the effect Box 1 | The photovoltaic effect A solar cell is a device containing a material that absorbs part of the solar irradiation (the rate of solar energy flow) that impinges on it and converts it to electrical power (the rate of electrical energy production). The solar irradiation is also called insolation and can be described as the photons or electromagnetic waves that reach us from the Sun. The electrical power is current times voltage, and results when both current and voltage are generated by the absorbed solar photons. The power reaches the outside world (to do work, for us) because the solar-generated voltage difference forces an electrical current to flow (see the figure, panel a). The absorbed light is mostly in the visible and near-infrared part of the solar spectrum. In most solar cells, the absorbing material is a semiconductor, within which, after photon absorption, valence band electrons are excited to become free electrons in the conduction band (bands are manifolds of electron energy levels, separated by negligibly small energy differences), which leaves missing electrons  called holes  in the valence band. This process is shown in the band diagram (note that electron energies increase upwards, and hole energies increase downwards) (see the figure, panel b). The threshold energy for this process to happen is called the bandgap energy (Eg). To convert the power of the absorbed photons, the solar cell must convert the free electrons and holes into a current flow. This current is normalized to the area that absorbs the solar photons and expressed as a current density J (in units of A cm2). If J flows at a non-zero voltage V out of the cell, an electrical power density P = JV is delivered to the external load. Obtaining this delivered electrical power density requires a selective device geometry that enables electrons to be collected at one contact and holes to be collected at the other contact (hole extraction is equivalent to electron injection; both descriptions ensure electroneutrality). Such selectivity5355 is usually achieved by combining measures such as ensuring work function differences between parts of the device (often achieved by doping, such as in pn junctions), or by selecting materials with differences in electron affinities and bandgaps that help to achieve low-resistance, low-loss contacts (see the figure, panel b). J flowing through the external circuit primarily depends on the absorbed photon flux. In the case of a pn junction, part of the selectivity already occurs inside the absorber layer and is caused by the different conductivities of the n-type (high electron conductivity) and p-type (high hole conductivity) regions. In thermodynamic equilibrium, gradients in carrier concentration (diffusion) and in electrostatic potential (drift) compensate each other to lead to zero current flow. Under illumination, the combination of drift and diffusion will cause an effective driving force (the gradient of the quasi-Fermi level or electrochemical potential) that directs electrons towards the n-type region and holes towards the p-type region of the device. The voltage V depends on the product of the electron and hole densities, which is increased by photon absorption and decreased by current flow out of the cell and by electrons and holes annihilating each other (recombination). Thus, for a given rate of photon absorption and electron flow out of the device, the rate of the recombination of the photo-generated electrons and holes determines the voltage and current delivered by the solar cell to the circuit. Thus, maximizing light absorption and minimizing the recombination of electronhole pairs are the two key optimization criteria for improving solar-cell efficiency (defined as Pout/Pin, where Pout is the electrical power density out and Pin is the solar power density in). There are two sources with up-to-date certified efficiency values (used nearly exclusively in this Review): the semi-annual solar-cell efficiency tables116 and the continuously updated NREL plots. Power is measured in units of watts, W. Because insolation varies, solar-cell power is often given in Wp where subscript p refers to the power at peak insolation (midday, clear sky). Unless otherwise noted, insolation is that of AM1.5G (Box 2). Eg Ec EV qV Energy Load Voltage V Current J Position Valence band Conduction band a b Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 338 Review article Box 2 | Key concepts in photovoltaics Air mass (AM) The abbreviation AM, commonly used in tabulated solar irradiance spectra, stands for air mass, which describes the thickness of the atmosphere that sunlight passes through before reaching the Earths surface. The value 1.5 means that the sunlight travels through an air column 1.5 times the vertical path length compared to when the Sun is directly overhead. The letter G refers to global, which includes both direct and scattered (diffuse) insolation. The AM1.5G spectrum is standardized to an irradiance of 100 mW cm2. Area (of a solar cell) In reporting the areas for solar-cell device performance data, two types of area are used. The index t indicates the total geometric area, whereas the index a refers to aperture area (the area directly exposed to the Sun, without the areas shaded by contacts); da refers to the designated illumination area, which becomes relevant if the cell or module is masked to expose an area that is less than the total area. AugerMeitner recombination This carrier recombination mechanism, traditionally called Auger recombination147,148 involves two electrons and one hole, or two holes and one electron. It requires high carrier densities to substantially affect device performance. AugerMeitner recombination is especially important in silicon at high doping densities or high excess carrier densities because its indirect bandgap enables long carrier lifetimes61. This effect limits the efficiency of crystalline silicon (c-Si) solar cells to approximately 29%, instead of the ShockleyQueisser limit of about 33%94. Back-surface field The field results from an increase of doping density close to the back contact of a solar cell to increase the majority- and reduce the minority-carrier concentrations at the contact. The back-surface field thus reduces the rate of back-surface recombination at a given applied voltage and reduces resistive losses for majority-carrier extraction. Because it is not the field, but rather the change in carrier concentrations that is important here, the commonly used term back-surface field has been considered a misnomer109. Light trapping This feature helps to improve the absorptance of weakly absorbed light without making the absorber thicker. Light trapping is typically achieved by exploiting the phenomenon of total internal reflection combined with light scattering at rough surfaces. Scattered light is trapped inside a material with a higher refractive index than the phases that surround it, thus increasing the probability of absorption. The efficacy of light trapping scales with the square of the real part of the refractive index (Yablonovitch limit)57,149. Therefore it is used primarily in materials that have high refractive index and low absorption coefficients close to the bandgap, which is true primarily for silicon but much less so of direct semiconductors. Light trapping can be beneficial for either the short-circuit current (at a given absorber thickness) or for the open-circuit voltage (if thickness is reduced to keep the photocurrent roughly constant)150. Mobility-lifetime product The mobility-lifetime product is a predictor of charge collection efficiency in different device geometries. In the neutral zone of pn junction solar cells, the collection efficiency scales with the ratio of diffusion length Ldiff, and thickness d, that is, Ldiff/d = d ( )/ μτk T q B (refs. 66,67), where kBT/q is the thermal voltage. In pin junction solar cells, the collection efficiency depends on the ratio of the drift length Ldrift to the thickness d, as follows: Ldrift/d = μτ(Vbi  V)/d2, where ε = (Vbi  V)/d is the average electric field in a fully depleted semiconductor68,69. In both cases, collection efficiency scales with the ratio μτ/d2. ShockleyQueisser model The ShockleyQueisser model27 is based on the principle of detailed balance28, and frequently used to calculate the maximum power-conversion efficiency of solar cells as a function of the optical bandgap. As the key idea of the model can be extended towards various scenarios (such as for multi-junction solar cells)151 and is simple to calculate, it has been highly influential as a reference point29. The late realization of its importance makes ref. 27 an example of a Sleeping Beauty (an important article, often a trail-blazing one, the importance of which was not realized for a long period after its publication)152. The models name has been questioned owing to the views of Shockley on race and eugenics153. ShockleyReadHall recombination Model aimed at describing recombination via localized states (often called defects or traps) in a semiconductor. The model is (also) based on the principle of detailed balance as well as on the condition that the localized states only interact with band states and not with other localized states. The model also includes occupation statistics for localized states that differs from FermiDirac statistics154. The ShockleyReadHall recombination is strictly intended to describe singly charged defects and its extension to amphoteric defects is known as SahShockley statistics155. Maximum power point (MPP) The point on a solar cells currentvoltage (JV) curve where the product of voltage (Vmpp) and current density (Jmpp) is at its maximum, representing the optimal operating point, at which the solar cell delivers the highest power output under given conditions. Main performance metrics Power conversion efficiency (η) The ratio of the power density Pout delivered to the external circuit to the power density Pin of the electromagnetic radiation impinging on the solar cell η P P V J P out in mpp mpp in = = Short-circuit current density (JSC) The current density produced when the load resistance is zero, which is proportional to the amount of sunlight absorbed and directly linked to the solar cells efficiency. Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 339 Review article of the series resistance Rs that leads to a reduced voltage Vmpp while not affecting VOC. Additionally, non-radiative recombination reduces both VOC and JSC from their SQ values. In the following, we briefly explain the cause and nature of the different loss mechanisms in the SQ model. Losses due to non-absorbed photons This major optical contribution of optical non-absorption or trans- mission losses (green areas in Fig. 1ac) originates from the fact that the model assumes that the broad solar spectrum is converted into electrical power by a system with a single threshold energy for photon absorption (that is, not the whole solar spectrum can be used). In nearly all solar cells that we use, this system is a single semiconductor with a fixed bandgap Eg, the threshold energy for photon absorption. Tandem (multi-junction) cells, discussed later in this Review, are the exception. Thermalization losses Thermalization losses (yellow areas in Fig. 1ac) are caused by the cool- ing of the photogenerated electrons and holes from the Suns tempera- ture to the lattice temperature. In this process, they lose their excess energy, relative to the bandgap, as vibrational energy to the lattice (by creating phonons). The thermalization losses explain why the available energy per electronhole pair cannot easily exceed the bandgap Eg. However, the actual free energy per extracted electronhole pair is qVmpp, which even in the SQ model is substantially lower than the bandgap (Fig. 1c). Furthermore, Jmpp is slightly lower than the maximum photogenerated current density JSC. This is due to a series of different losses that reduce the free energy that can be made available to the circuit, relative to the potential energy of the electronhole pair3133. Recombination losses Within the logic of Fig. 1b,c, we can now split up the remaining losses into one contribution that reduces the photocurrent to Jmpp and one that reduces the free energy of the extracted electronhole pair to qVmpp. Within the SQ model, all photogenerated carriers are extracted at short circuit, whereas at open circuit all recombine. At the MPP, some carriers are extracted and some recombine, thus leading to a reduction of Jmpp relative to JSC. Within the SQ model, all recombination is radiative, thus leading to an emission of photons. The loss due to this recombination can be expressed as the bandgap energy Eg multiplied by the recom- bination current density Jrec = JSC  Jmpp at the MPP (Fig. 1b,c). In highly efficient solar cells Jrec is tiny at the MPP, and thus the corresponding power loss Prec = Eg(JSC  Jmpp)/q is also relatively small34. We note that recombination losses are unavoidable owing to the necessity of allow- ing radiative recombination to happen, when absorption of photons can happen (according to the principle of detailed balance)28. Isothermal losses Isothermal losses are additional losses in the free energy of the electronhole pairs that generate heat but are not due to the cooling of the electron and hole temperatures to the lattice temperature (the relax- ation of excited carriers, that is, their cooling via thermalization). The first contribution to the isothermal losses can be traced to a decrease in entropy (which costs free energy). It originates from the differences in solid angle between the photon fluxes absorbed by, and emitted from, a solar cell without light concentration. Such a cell emits photons over a wide angle (180 or π steradians), whereas only a small fraction of the photons emitted by the sun is intercepted by the Earth (as determined by the Earths disk, 0.68  104 steradians). This difference results in a reduction in free energy by qΔVOC = kBT ln(46,200) (that is, 275 meV at 300 K, where kB is the Boltzmann constant) and is called etendue loss33. Here, kBT is the thermal energy (25.9 meV at 300 K) and VOC is the open-circuit voltage. This loss, which does not depend on the bandgap of the cell but on temperature, can be minimized by concentrating the light, thus increasing the actual solid angle of the impinging light. This strategy is made possible because we can assume that light from the Sun impinges on the Earth as a parallel beam that can be collimated, although the concentration will become less effective with increasing scattering by the atmosphere (caused by, for example, clouds or dust). To explain the second isothermal loss, we must also consider the rate at which the charge carriers are extracted. The product of the energy per carrier and the flux of charge carriers out of the device cor- responds to the rate of energy generation, the power density. The need to operate the solar cell at a finite rate of carrier extraction leads to a power density loss given by Jmpp  (VOC  Vmpp), which can theoretically be minimized by decreasing the temperature of the solar cell to reduce the voltage difference (VOC  Vmpp) (refs. 35,36). To summarize, the efficiency of solar cells with a single opti- cal absorber (that is, with a single absorption threshold) is limited by different losses that originate from the limitations imposed by the single absorption threshold. Thus, the SQ model gives the maxi- mum attainable efficiency for solar cells. In addition, the SQ model provides both strategies for further improvement (for example, multi-junction solar cells) and a reference for quantifying the degree of additional, avoidable losses existing in real-world solar cells. Real-world solar cells and their losses For comparison, we chose six different PV types, using different materi- als or materials classes: c-Si (refs. 37,38), GaAs (ref. 39), Cu(In,Ga)Se2 (ref. 40), Cd(Te,Se) (ref. 41), metal halide perovskite (HaP) materials16,42 and organic photovoltaics (OPV)43. All of these technologies have cur- rent record energy-conversion efficiencies of at least 15% for cells with an area 1 cm2. However, in all cases, the solar-cell performance of champion cells falls short of the SQ model (Fig. 2ac). Open-circuit voltage (VOC) The maximum voltage the solar cell can produce when no current is flowing, which reflects the quality of the material and its ability to minimize recombination losses. Fill factor (FF) A parameter that captures power losses that are specifically related to the non-zero rate of extracting power to the external circuit and that are often (but not exclusively) related to resistive losses originating from contact layers, buffer layers or even the absorber layer itself. The fill factor is given by FF V J V J mpp mpp OC SC = (continued from previous page) Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 340 Review article To achieve a high PV conversion efficiency close to the SQ limit, the following criteria are required: (1) All incoming photons with energy above the bandgap must be absorbed (2) Each absorbed photon must create one electronhole pair (3) All photogenerated charges must reach the contacts (4) The contacts must be completely selective, blocking the opposite charge (5) Charges must reach the external circuit with minimal voltage (resistance) and current (recombination) loss However, for criteria (1) to (4), absorption and recombination losses lead to reduced photocurrents (by reducing the rate of charge carriers that reach the external circuit). Under real-world conditions, part of the insolation will be scattered in the Earths atmosphere, lead- ing to so-called diffuse radiation (which cannot be concentrated). Diffuse radiation is distinct from direct radiation, which, for ideal conditions, makes up 100% of the insolation. For criteria (3) and (4), the recombination losses reduce the photovoltage even without cur- rent flow (that is, VOC is reduced) because of the reduced carrier densi- ties under illumination. For criterion (5), resistive losses reduce the photovoltage, proportional to the given (finite) current flow. The underlying causes of these losses vary and require differ- ent mitigation strategies depending on the specific PV technology (Table 1). Non-radiative recombination losses are typically caused by defects in the bulk or at the interfaces of the transport and contact materials. In highly pure, c-Si solar cells, non-radiative recombination is often dominated by AugerMeitner recombination (Box 2), which can be minimized by avoiding highly doped regions. The use of heterojunc- tions can help by shifting the highly doped regions of the junction to a material with a higher bandgap (often amorphous Si). Defect-assisted recombination is often reduced by using high(er) quality bulk material or by interface passivation. Examples of passiva- tion methods include the use of hydrogen-rich amorphous Si (a-Si:H) as interface passivation and transport layers for c-Si (ref. 44) and alkali ions for Cu(In,Ga)Se2 surfaces45,46, which may also work for HaP solar cells47,48. Traditionally, the working hypothesis in semiconduc- tor physics is that expensive and sophisticated material preparation methods (such as epitaxy) lead to fewer bulk defects and less grain boundaries, thereby reducing recombination rates49,50. However, this hypothesis is defied by some material and material classes, such as CdTe (for which inversion of grain boundaries caused by defects can sometimes improve performance), organic semiconductors and some metalHaP materials51. The latter show remarkably small rates of non-radiative recombination for a given carrier density, even though HaP materials in PV cells are microcrystalline, with 0.5 μm grain sizes52. We now consider in some detail criterion (4), in which adopting two selective contacts helps to minimize both resistive losses and recombination losses at the contact5355. Although the term selective contacts is frequently used in the community, it is surprisingly difficult to define53. One reason is that the selectivity of a contact is difficult to disentangle from other properties of the device. Selectivity can be made up of different contributions that may involve electrostatics, kinetics54, the availability of electronic states and resistive effects. A perfectly selective contact enables extraction of one type of carrier 1 2 3 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 Fraction of power Eg (eV) Eﬀiciency Not absorbed Thermalization Isothermal Recombination a Current density Voltage NRR Power density out Photon flux Photon energy Eg Not absorbed b Thermalization Power density out Recombination Isothermal JSC/q SQ JV qVOC SQ VOC Eg/q SQ JSC SQ VOC JSC Rs Vmpp Jmpp c Fig. 1 | Power losses in photovoltaic energy conversion within the SQ model. a, Power-conversion loss of an ideal solar cell (as a fraction of all solar power that reaches the cell), computed with the ShockleyQueisser (SQ) model, as a function of the threshold photon energy above which solar photons are absorbed (bandgap energy (Eg)). The upper boundary of the white area delineates the possible power-conversion efficiencies (within the SQ model) as a function of Eg. The yellow area represents thermalization losses (photon energy (Eph)  Eg). Within the bands, electrons with excess energy (from Eph  Eg) dissipate this extra energy quickly (hundreds of femtoseconds) to the lattice; thus, the temperature that specifies the electron energy distribution will reduce to the temperature of the lattice. The green area represents the losses from transmitted (that is, not absorbed) photons (Eph  Eg). The solar spectrum is approximated by a 5,800 K blackbody, adjusted to fit the 100 mW cm2 standard solar illumination intensity of AM1.5G (Box 2). b, Energy losses for a given Eg as a function of photon flux versus Eg. The black dotted line represents the current densityvoltage ( JV) curve, JSC is the short-circuit current density (at V = 0) and VOC is the open-circuit voltage (at J = 0). The maximum output power is given by the area of the white rectangle, and the ratio of that area to the ( JSC  VOC) area is the fill factor (FF). The x axis is an energy axis that can also be interpreted as a voltage axis multiplied by the elementary charge q as follows: E = qV, where q is the elementary electron charge. The area below the uppermost line is the available power density in the solar spectrum (approximated by radiation emitted from a blackbody at 5,800 K, roughly the Suns surface temperature). Superscript SQ indicates the value for a cell that follows the SQ model. c, A zoom-in on the lower left-hand corner in panel b, showing the same ideal JV curve as well as JV curves that result from further power losses due to additional recombination of photogenerated carriers and extra resistances in the solar cell (an ideal circuit is assumed). mpp, maximum power point; NRR, non-radiative recombination; Rs, series resistance. Reprinted from ref. 29. Springer Nature Limited. Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 341 Review article without resistive losses and suppresses recombination of the other type of carrier55. If the doping densities towards the metal contacts are sufficiently high, an ohmic contact is formed with any metal. Then, even if metalsemiconductor work function differences lead to extrac- tion barriers, they will be very thin in a highly doped semiconductor, in which case the electrons or holes can tunnel through to the metal contacts. Thus, if the absorber itself enables selectivity, the contact requirements are relaxed. Traditional silicon solar cells had a pn homojunction architecture. However, this architecture is becoming rare in silicon technology and is completely absent in all new solar-cell technologies. One of the main reasons is that using high levels of dopants in the absorber layer, spe- cifically for creating contacts, is problematic. Either one risks having high rates of AugerMeitner recombination (a problem mainly in c-Si) or the semiconductors are impossible to dope sufficiently, or, if they can be, then they will have very poor electronic properties (high rates of non-radiative recombination). The result is that, even though the PV effect is nearly universally taught by way of a pn junction, in almost none of the currently considered device geometries are pn homo- junctions still in use, because they are often difficult to fabricate in non-Si devices. In c-Si solar cells, pn homojunctions were dominant for decades, but currently the highest efficiencies are achieved using heterojunction designs that lead to higher open-circuit voltages37. Heterojunctions were an alternative to traditional pn junctions. Instead of using a single type of semiconductor, heterojunctions com- bine different semiconductors, often paired with contact materials (transparent conductive oxides and metals) that have suitable work functions. Alternatively, semiconducting charge transport layers that are sufficiently doped can be used to create low resistive contacts. Minimizing resistive effects often requires a compromise between passivation and conduction, as well as between parasitic optical absorp- tion and conduction56. Many materials that passivate semiconducting absorbers or serve as charge transport layers have a higher bandgap than the absorbers and are poor conductors. Examples include organic layers that contact HaP materials, or a-Si:H that contacts c-Si in Si heterojunction solar cells. Lateral conduction, which is necessary to collect all the current in large-area cells and modules, introduces additional losses. Lateral conduction is often enabled by a combination of transparent conduc- tive oxides and metal grids. Thin and lower-doped transparent conduc- tive oxides have better transparency but higher resistance than thicker and higher-doped transparent conductive oxides, leading to resistive losses. Thicker metal grids with more fingers improve current con- duction but increase shadowing losses. Because resistive losses scale with the current, series interconnection of smaller individual cells can minimize this problem, but this strategy makes module construction more complex for a given area. Optical losses can be reduced through several strategies, including by minimizing parasitic absorption in the contact and transport layers, and by using antireflective coatings and light-trapping structures. The key factor is the refractive index of the absorber, which is equal to the square of its dielectric constant at optical frequencies. The higher the refractive index, the more the semiconductor reflects light, lead- ing to reflection losses (the reflectance depends on the difference between the refractive indices Δn of air, with n  1, and the medium). In addition, the higher the n, the better the light trapping (and absorp- tion) because of increased light scattering and possible total internal reflection37,57. The maximum path length of weakly absorbed light is 4n² times the absorber thickness. Furthermore, the less sharp the absorp- tion onset, the more relevant the implementation of light-trapping strategies becomes, to ensure absorption and use of all photons with Eph  Eg. Thus, for materials with smeared-out absorption onsets and a high refractive index over the relevant parts of the solar spectrum (such as the indirect bandgap semiconductor silicon), investing in light-trapping technology is worthwhile. Conversely, materials with sharper absorption onsets and lower refractive indices (such as HaP materials and organics) require fewer optical tricks to maximize absorption, but even then, antireflection coatings improve device performance. To summarize, research on single-junction technologies aims to minimize losses compared to an ideal solar cell that follows the SQ model. The mitigation strategies employed depend on the specific properties of the materials; the indirect bandgap semiconductor sili- con requires advanced optical techniques as well as strategies to avoid AugerMeitner recombination. For thin-film solar cells (including per- ovskites and organics) poor light absorption is mostly not an issue, 0.75 0.80 0.85 0.90 0.95 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 JSC (mA cm2) c-Si GaAs HaP CdTe1XSeX OPV CIGS 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 VOC (V) CIGS c-Si GaAs HaP CdTe1XSeX OPV FF 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 Eg (eV) Eg (eV) Eg (eV) c-Si CIGS CdTe1XSeX GaAs HaP OPV a b c JSC SQ JSC real FFSQ FFreal VOC SQ VOC real Fig. 2 | Performance parameters of record cells of different technologies compared with the SQ limit values. a, Short-circuit current density ( JSC). b, Open-circuit voltage (VOC). c, Fill factor (FF). The different technologies compared are crystalline Si (c-Si), Cu(In,Ga)Se2 (CIGS), halide perovskite (HaP) and organic photovoltaics (OPV). An AM1.5G spectrum is assumed as input. Superscript real refers to all quantities that are measured on an actual solar cell and superscript SQ to all quantities calculated using the ShockleyQueisser (SQ) model. We note that the entries in the panels are the JSC, VOC and FF values of record cells, which are not necessarily record values for JSC, VOC and FF. Eg, bandgap energy. Data from ref. 36 and updated. Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 342 Review article but these require substantially more efforts to avoid defect-assisted recombination at interfaces and in the bulk. Material properties for device application There are many key requirements for making efficient solar cells. The first criterion is for the absorbing material to have a suitable Eg value of 1.01.5 eV, which is the range in which the conversion efficiency of a single-junction device is optimal (Fig. 1a). As all incoming photons with energy above Eg should be absorbed, and all the photogenerated carri- ers need to reach the contacts, additional requirements are imposed on absorption coefficient, carrier lifetime and mobility. Many material properties are directly related to PV performance (Fig. 3). For example, for a given ατ product (where α is the absorp- tion coefficient taken at a photon energy Eph = Eg + kBT and τ is the charge-carrier lifetime) and a given thickness d, the efficiency can vary strongly (Fig. 3a). However, for a given ατ product, the efficiency at the optimum thickness is always the same58,59. This relationship is true in the limit of sufficiently high mobilities and if parameters such as the doping density are assumed to be constant. Importantly, having both a high absorption coefficient and a very high charge carrier lifetime is not crucial (Fig. 3a). For instance, c-Si silicon works well as a PV material despite its rather low absorption coefficient above the bandgap. But silicon can compensate for this shortcoming thanks to its extremely long lifetimes. Therefore, the important parameter to consider is the ατ product, which must be high enough. In addition, the thickness needed to achieve a high efficiency for a given ατ product needs to be compatible with other boundary conditions such as the charge-carrier mobility or technological restrictions of the fabrication process. The relation between the efficiency η and the ατ product depends on the doping densities (Fig. 3b, where η is normalized to the efficiency ηSQ in the SQ model). Higher doping densities can accommodate higher efficiencies, especially for low ατ products. However, this dependency holds only if charge-carrier mobilities are high enough that charge col- lection is not compromised. Because all PV technologies are affected by additional loss mechanisms (Table 1), their efficiencies are some- what lower than what the SQ model predicts. GaAs is an exception, because the typically used doping densities in GaAs solar cells are substantially higher than for all other PV technologies. Therefore, the GaAs data should be compared with the model that assumes higher doping densities (1017 cm3) (green line in Fig. 3b). When comparing the ατ product as a function of the typical thick- nesses used in different PV technologies, the variability in data can be attributed to different experimental findings but also to different conditions (Fig. 3c). For instance, GaAs shows a large error bar in the y-direction thanks to the strong dependence of τ on doping density and excess carrier density60. The dependence of the ατ product on thickness has a U-shape. At high thickness, c-Si exhibits both the high- est lifetimes of all PV materials (τ  1 ms)61 and the lowest absorption coefficients α(Eph) (refs. 62,63). However, the product is still very high, up to ατ 0.1 cm1 s. For cells with absorbers that are a few micrometres thick (inorganic thin-film solar cells), the ατ product is substantially lower (up to ατ  103 cm1 s). This product increases again for the very thin HaP- or organic-based cells. Here, an important method-specific bias applies: in HaP materials, the long lifetimes that allow ατ products to be comparable to those of c-Si are real, but in organic solar cells, the long lifetimes are at least partly due to capacitive effects64,65 that are dif- ficult to avoid in the electrical measurements typically used needed to study charge-carrier lifetimes. The values for organic semiconductors are therefore probably overestimated. The ατ product is only indicative of device performance if charge generation and charge collection are efficient. Charge generation after photon absorption is efficient for all inorganic solar-cell materials at room temperature as well as for the Pb-HaP materials considered for photovoltaics. For organic semiconductors, photon absorption initially leads to exciton generation. Given that exciton splitting is not efficient in layers consisting of one type of molecule, heterojunctions are typi- cally employed, leading to additional losses in both photocurrent and photovoltage. Although exciton dissociation is a problem specific to OPV, all types of solar cell potentially suffer from inefficient collection of electrons and holes. Therefore, a second product of material proper- ties, μτ/d2 (where d is the thickness and μ is the mobility) can be used as a useful figure of merit for charge collection (Fig. 3d). Charge col- lection itself can be driven by different mechanisms. In situations where charge collection is mainly diffusion-driven (for example, in c-Si), Table 1 | Potentially avoidable power losses and mitigation strategies for solar cells Carrier recombination Lack of selectivity Optical losses Causes Via bulk/surface defects Via interface defects By AugerMeitner mechanism Series resistances Energy-level mismatch High interface recombination Contact transparency Less, rather than more, steep absorption edge Mitigation for silicon Monocrystalline wafers Interface passivation Heterojunctions for reducing AugerMeitner recombination Point contacts Heterojunctions Light trapping Contact transparency Eliminate top contact Mitigation for perovskite Interface passivation Avoid halide segregation Identify transport layer materials with good energy-level alignment and charge transport properties Reduce parasitic absorption due to charge transport layers Mitigation for CIGS and CdTe Bandgap grading Bulk and surface passivation Avoid direct metalsemiconductor contacts Bandgap grading Carrier-selective layers Reduced thickness if coupled with light trapping Mitigation for organic photovoltaics Material selection and design (for example, using non-fullerene acceptors) Modify workfunction of contact layers via interface dipoles Reduce parasitic absorption The major losses can be divided into recombination, selectivity (including resistive losses) and optical losses. The mitigation strategies are given separately for four different types of solar cell. CIGS, Cu(In,Ga)Se2. Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 343 Review article charge collection scales with Ldiff/d = μτk T q d ( / )/ B (refs. 66,67), where kBT/q is the thermal voltage. If charge collection is driven by drift in an average electric field ε = (Vbi  V)/d of a fully depleted solar cell (for example, in thin-film organic solar cells), the collection efficiency depends on the ratio of drift-length Ldrift to thickness, that is, Ldrift/d = μτ(Vbi  V)/d2 (refs. 68,69). A value of around μτ/d2 = 40 V1 (at room temperature) is approximately equivalent to Ldiff/d = 1, mean- ing that recombination losses during collection in a neutral zone of a solar cell would still be important. For values of Ldiff/d  10 as in c-Si solar cells, for example, the collection losses due to bulk recombination become entirely negligible and only the recombination at surfaces or interfaces lead to charge-collection losses. Although μτ/d2 is a good figure of merit with which to compare the suitability of absorber materials (not of devices) to support charge collection, in some device geometries, the charge collection is affected primarily by the properties of the contact layers7072, which the μτ/d2 product does not reflect. The relation between μτ/d2 and the thickness is approximately U-shaped (Fig. 3d), with the major excep- tion of molecular semiconductors, on the left. As molecular (including polymeric) semiconductors typically have mobilities orders of magni- tude lower than non-molecular inorganic ones, their μτ/d2 product is much lower than for most other PV materials. Despite their moderate mobilities, Pb-HaP materials have among the highest μτ/d2 products, combining long lifetimes with low absorber-layer thicknesses. Another material parameter of relevance for solar-cell applica- tions is the Urbach energy73 (Box 2), which is a measure of the density of electronic states that tail into the bandgap and is often associated with decreased achievable photovoltage74,75. A high Urbach energy reflects that a substantial density of states extends into the bandgap (tail states), which provides additional charge-carrier recombination channels. Photogenerated carriers thermalize to the respective tail states for recombination and, as a result, more energy is lost than if the band edge is sharp and band-to-band edge recombination domi- nates. Tail-states-mediated non-radiative recombination further lowers OPV CdTe CIGS HaP Si GaAs Si HaP CIGS OPV CdTe GaAs (1) 10 6 10 5 10 4 10 3 10 2 10 1 10 0 25 20 15 10 5 0 1.0 0.9 0.7 0.8 0.6 0.5 0.4 10 1 10 2 10 1 10 0 10 1 10 2 10 3 10 2 10 1 10 0 10 1 10 3 10 2 10 1 10 6 10 5 10 4 10 0 10 1 10 2 10 3 10 4 10 5 10 6 10 7 10 2 10 1 10 0 10 1 10 2 10 1 10 0 10 1 10 2 10 1 10 0 Thickness d (µm) ατ (cm1s) ατ (cm1 s) Thickness d (µm) Thickness d (µm) Ldiﬀ/d 1017 cm3 1016 cm3 1015 cm3 Intrinsic Experimental Higher absorption lower lifetime ατ = 103 s cm1 α(Eph) = 102 cm1 τ = 10 µs α(Eph) = 104 cm1 τ = 100 ns (1) τ likely overestimated Guide to the eye Guide to the eye Eﬀiciency η (%) Ratio η/ηSQ µτ/d2 (V1) a b c d Fig. 3 | Comparison between material parameters and performance characteristics of important photovoltaic technologies. a, Efficiency η as a function of thickness d simulated for different combinations of α (absorption coefficient) taken at a photon energy Eph = Eg + kBT (where kB is the Boltzmann constant, and T is temperature in kelvin) and at lifetime τ, always taking the same ατ product (ατ = 103 s cm1). The values of α(Eph) vary logarithmically in the range 102104 cm1 and the values of τ vary from 10 µs to 100 ns. b, Normalized efficiency as a function of the ατ product for different doping densities. Experimental data shown for comparison. c, Product α(Eph)τ as a function of the typical thicknesses d of the absorber layers. d, Mobility-lifetime product divided by the square of the absorber layer thickness μτ/d2 for different photovoltaic absorber materials. The right y axis shows the corresponding ratio of the diffusion length Ldiff and the absorber thickness d. CIGS, Cu(In,Ga)Se2; OPV, organic photovoltaics. Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 344 Review article the steady-state photogenerated carrier concentration and thus the open-circuit voltage. The Urbach energies for GaAs (ref. 63), CIGS76,77, CdTe (ref. 78) and HaP materials63 are 1020 meV and for efficient OPVs36 about 25 meV. In materials such as a-Si (ref. 79) and kesterites  Cu2ZnSnS4 (ref. 80) and Cu2ZnSnS4ySey (ref. 81)  the voltage loss is important owing to their very high Urbach energy, resulting in η  15%76,8284. To summarize, various combinations of material parameters can lead to efficient PV devices. However, thresholds for figures of merit, such as the ατ product, the μτ/d2 product, and descriptors for the sharp- ness of the band edge85 (for example, the inverse Urbach energy), must be overcome to achieve competitive solar-cell efficiencies. Device geometries and performance Different types of device geometry can be used depending on the PV technology employed (Fig. 4). The passivated emitter and rear contact (PERC) geometry (Fig. 4a), which dates back to the early to mid-1980s86,87, is now commercially a very important geometry for c-Si cells that enables high photocurrents and fill factors, but suffers from reduced VOC (open-circuit voltages) rel- ative to other Si device geometries88. The main causes of the reduced VOC are the direct semiconductormetal contacts and the diffused emitter (n+ Si), leading to high rates of AugerMeitner recombination in the strongly doped regions at the front of the cell88. Often, for p-type Si (for example, boron-doped), a highly n-type emitter is formed by expos- ing Si to POCl3 gas at high temperatures (850 C), so as to convert part of the Si to p-type and form the pn junction. The tunnel oxide passivated contact (TOPCon)89 geometry (Fig. 4b) also suffers from high rates of Auger recombination at the front of the cell (p+-Si contacts the metal) but avoids highly doped layers at the back contact of the n-Si absorber. In that case, a thin (1.7 nm) SiOx tunnel junction is formed between the absorber and an n+ polycrystalline-Si film. Although thick SiO2 is electrically insulating, such thin oxides allow for efficient electron transport by tunnelling. The Si heterojunction (SHJ) device geometry (Fig. 4c) avoids dif- fused junctions completely and enables both passivation and selec- tivity with intrinsic a-Si:H layers and doped a-Si:H or nanocrystalline Si (nc-Si) or SiOx layers90. Because the Eg value of a-Si:H is larger than that of c-Si, minority-carrier transport towards the a-Si:HITO inter- face (where ITO is indium tin oxide) is less than with direct Simetal contacts. State-of-the-art Si technology uses the SHJ geometry, where the JSC and FF values are very close to the SQ limit (Fig. 2a,c). In addi- tion to those shown in Fig. 3, there are c-Si cells without a front-contact grid, with both contacts at the back, the so-called interdigitated back-contact cells. The absence of shadowing by the contacts results in the (2024) record efficiencies for c-Si cells with this architecture91. A peculiar property of high-efficiency Si solar cells is that the FF can even exceed the SQ value, owing to the lower-than-unity ideality factors caused by AugerMeitner recombination; this does, however, reduce the maximum possible VOC (refs. 92,93). The small reduction in JSC values is due to the shadowing effect of the front electrode grid, as well as parasitic absorption in the ITO and the amorphous or nanocrys- talline silicon layers90. Thus, the overall efficiencies of c-Si-based cells are below that within the SQ model, for its 1.12-eV bandgap61,94. The highest-performing single-junction technology is based on a pn junction made from a crystalline GaAs (Fig. 4d). The bandgap of GaAs (1.4 eV) is well within the 1.01.5 eV range of optimal bandgaps for single-junction PV cells, in the SQ model. The high performance of the cell is due to the high VOC and FF values resulting from several remarkable achievements (Fig. 2b,c). The epitaxial lift-off method used to prepare GaAs thin films makes the integration of highly reflective back contacts possible, which eliminates parasitic absorption and allows the cells to benefit from photon recycling50. The very high electronic quality of both the absorber material and its interfaces with the charge-collecting layers suppresses most non-radiative recom- bination events, resulting in a VOC very close to what is predicted by the SQ model. The Cu(In,Ga)Se2 solar-cell technology (Fig. 4e) was the most effi- cient thin-film technology for a long time, until the advent of HaP. The technology is based on a substrate configuration, meaning that the stack is grown on glass, starting with the metal back contact. Thus, the glass serves only as a (cheap) mechanical support for the other layers, and its transparency is irrelevant because the light impinges from the other side. The metal back-contact material is generally Mo, a poor optical back reflector, which still provides a decent-quality metalsemiconductor interface. However, the presence of a direct metalsemiconductor interface in these cells is a major obstacle to achieving higher efficiencies. The main strategy to minimize the recom- bination losses at the back contact is to use a gradual decrease in the In/Ga ratio towards the back contact that increases Eg, thereby reducing the electron (the minority carrier) density at the contact and, thus, the recombination rate at a given voltage. The present champion cell uses CdS as the buffer layer, which causes a small loss in JSC owing to parasitic absorbance (Fig. 2a). Reduction of that parasitic absorbance using very thin CdS or another type of buffer layer, such as Zn(O,S), could increase the efficiency to 25%95. CdTe (nowadays Cd(Te,Se)) solar cells (Fig. 4f) are commercially the most important thin-film technology. The cell is grown in a super- strate configuration, meaning that the glass serves as an optically transparent mechanical support through which the absorber material is illuminated. CdTe solar cells are typically fabricated with different types of buffer layer to avoid a direct CdTemetal (contact) interface, which is where much of the voltage loss occurs. In the past decade, some Te (8.510%) has been replaced by Se to yield a Cd(Te,Se) alloy with a decreased absorber bandgap. This strategy increases solar radiation absorption and, thus, the cells photocurrent. Se doping also passivates the deep-level defects of CdTe, thus increasing the carrier diffusion length96, which is reflected in the higher photocurrent (Fig. 2a) and reduced VOC losses compared to pure CdTe-based cells. Although the photocurrent efficiency is quite high, the voltage losses are higher than that of single-crystal (c-Si, GaAs) and of other thin-film (CIGS, HaP)-based cells. Higher VOC values are possible for CdTe technology, as was shown for single-crystal CdTe cells (1 V) and small-area poly- crystalline cells (900 mV)9799. We note that the Urbach energy of the CdTe absorber material is similar to that of GaAs, CIGS and HaP. Hence, if the VOC loss in CdTe cells could be further reduced without affecting the photocurrent efficiency, CdTe cells could achieve an efficiency of 25%. Reducing the VOC loss could be achieved by doping the CdTe layer with group V elements like phosphorus, which enhances the lifetime of photo-generated electrons, and by modifying the CdTeCdS interface with nanocrystalline materials100. HaP solar cells (Fig. 4g) are typically always in a superstrate con- figuration but use a variety of different contact materials that have an electron contact on the glass or on the back side of the cell stack. The pin geometry (Fig. 4g) uses an ITO layer as a transparent contact for hole collection, an organic (mostly polymeric) hole-transport layer (HTL), which nowadays often includes also a self-assembled molecu- lar monolayer, followed by an HaP-based absorber layer, an electron Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 345 Review article transport layer, usually C60, and a metal contact (Ag or Cu) for electron collection. The metal contact is often coated with another molecular layer (such as bathocuproine, BCP), a buffer layer that reduces the contacts work function to maximize the built-in electrostatic potential difference between the transparent conductive oxide at the front and the Ag back-contact; it also prevents halides reacting with the metal contact101,102. The stack avoids direct metalsemiconductor interfaces but is often limited by recombination at the absorberC60 interface and by resistive effects. In the inverted (nip) geometry, generally SnO2, TiO2 or ZnO is used as the electron-transport layer (ETL) on the transparent electrode and the HaP layer is sandwiched between the ETL and an organic semiconductor-based HTL. Often the interfaces of the HaP materials (which have a three-dimensional structure) are passivated with two-dimensional HaP or organic molecules to reduce non-radiative recombination at the interfaces. In the champion device, the VOC loss is lower than that in CdTe and OPV cells, but comparable to Ag Ag Ag a InO2:Sn Ag SnO2:F MgZnO buﬀer Si (PERC) d GaAs i j k l m Band diagrams with diﬀerent back contact designs Energy EV Ec qV e Cu(In,Ga)Se2 f CdTe g HaP h Organic b Si (TOPCon) c Si (SHJ) Si3N4 AR coating Glass Glass Glass InO2:Sn Ag Glass Mo ZnO/ZnO:AI Si3N4 AR coating SiOX tunnel oxide Si3N4 AI2O3 AI2O3 passivation n+ Si AI2O3 n-nc-SiOX:H p-nc-Si:H i-a-Si:H i-a-Si:H ITO Ag Ag Ag Au Au Position Au GaIn/AIGaAs GaAs (p) GaAs (n) AIInP (window) Antireflective Ag Ag Ag p-type base p-Cu(In,Ga)Se2 n-CdS n-type base n-type base p+ Si p+ Si n+ poly-Si CdTe ZnTe SAM HaP C60 Organic ETL D:A blend PEDOT:PSS CdSeTe Metalsemiconductor contact p+ region Conduction- band oﬀset Grading Ag Ag Fig. 4 | Schematic cross-sections of different PV technologies and mechanisms for achieving different degrees of carrier selectivity. ac, Crystalline-Si-based commercial cells (see refs. 37,38 for recent reviews). a, Passivated emitter rear contact (PERC) Si cell, the industry standard until 2023. b, Tunnel oxide passivated contact (TOPCon) design using a SiOx tunnel contact on the back side for improved back-surface passivation, the expected successor of the PERC cell. c, Si heterojunction (SHJ) cell design with amorphous Si (a-Si:H) on both sides. d, GaAs (ref. 143). e, Cu(In,Ga)Se2 (CIGS). f, CdTe. g, Halide perovskite (HaP). h, Organic photovoltaic (PV) cell designs. The charge transport layers and their sequence in the HaP and organic PV cell stacks are not limited to those shown here. Many different combinations of charge transport materials and sequences are used, and this is an active field of research. im, Band diagrams of devices with different back-contact (arbitrarily chosen as the hole contact) geometries, where the front contact (the electron contact in these examples) is drawn only once, in panel i. The back-contact designs are direct semiconductormetal interface (panel j); highly doped p+metal interface (panel k); conduction-band offset (similarly, valence-band offset can be used for hole selectivity) (panel l); and graded bandgap144 (panel m). The latter three designs reduce the density of electrons at the hole-collecting interface, thereby reducing the rate of electron recombination at the hole contact. AR, anti-reflective; D:A blend, donor:acceptor blend; Ec, energy at the bottom of the conduction band; ETL, electron transport layer; Ev, energy at the top of the valence band; ITO, indium tin oxide; nc-Si, nanocrystalline silicon; SAM, self-assembled monolayer. Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 346 Review article that of c-Si and CIGS cells (Fig. 2b), thanks to the excellent electronic properties of the HaP. Larger-area (1 cm2) cells have a higher resistive loss (Fig. 1c) than smaller ones99, reflected in lower FF values (Fig. 2c) even though JSC and VOC values are nearly identical. The device geometry of OPV solar cells (Fig. 4h) was in part adopted later for HaP solar cells (whereas other device aspects were derived from the dye-sensitized solar cell)103105. The high-work-function organic polymeric hole-transport material PEDOT:PSS is a frequently used hole conductor. An alternative is the n-type but also high-work- function material MoOx, a rare case of an n-type material that works efficiently as a hole contact106. The absorber layer is typically a blend of two (or three) types of molecule, often referred to as a bulk heterojunc- tion, with different electron affinities and ionization potentials107. This mixture of two molecules supports the dissociation of photogenerated excitons, to allow transport of electrons in the material with a higher electron affinity (called electron acceptor), and of holes in the material with the lower ionization potential (called electron donor). The elec- tron contact of organic solar cells consists of a double layer of metal coated towards the absorber with a thin organic layer that reduces the metals work function to improve contact selectivity. To summarize, the evolution of device geometries across dif- ferent solar cell technologies has been driven by the need to address material properties (Fig. 3). For each of the geometries, tricks must be implemented to maximize absorption (especially in c-Si), and additional strategies need to be developed to avoid high surface or interface recombination. The latter task primarily involves identifying suitable buffer layers that can be inserted between the absorber layer and the metal contact to suppress recombination while still enabling efficient transport for the carrier type of interest, without leading to substantially enhanced parasitic absorption. For CIGS especially, this task is not entirely solved108, leading to the use of graded bandgaps, obtained in CIGS solar cells by gradually changing the In-to-Ga ratio, as an emergency measure to keep minority carriers away from the metal contact. In this strategy, by increasing the bandgap towards what are otherwise recombination-active interfaces, the recombina- tion rates at a given voltage can be reduced. The downside of bandgap grading is that less volume for absorption is available around the lowest bandgap in the system, which leads to less abrupt absorption onsets. Bandgap grading has also been used in copper zinc tin sulfide (CZTS)-based cells. Selective contacts in PV Contact geometries can be represented using band diagrams, each geometry demonstrating a different approach to achieve some degree of selectivity (Fig. 4i). In the direct semiconductormetal contact geometry (Fig. 4j), typical of early Si solar cells, there is no mechanism to keep elec- trons in the p-type base away from the hole contact. As direct Simetal contacts are, with few exceptions (Pb, Bi and Hg), reactive and thus highly defective, recombination at such contact is high. An obvious solution to this problem is to reduce the area of the direct metalsemiconductor interface using point contacts, whereby only a small area of the back is covered by metal and the rest by passivation layers, such as Al2O3 or SiO2. This strategy has improved efficiency, for example, in the PERC design (Fig. 4a). A second option to reduce recombination is to increase the dop- ing density close to the contact to further increase the majority-carrier and decrease the minority-carrier concentration (Fig. 4k). Because the recombination scales with the minority-carrier concentration, this strategy will effectively decrease recombination and increase V. A third option is to avoid direct contact between the actual absorber layer of the solar cell and the metal back contact by adding a buffer layer, typically formed by a slightly higher-bandgap semiconductor (Fig. 4l). Sometimes, it is possible to dope this semiconductor p-type to further reduce the electron density within the buffer layer. Thus, the buffer layer potentially uses two mechanisms to improve the selectivity. It reduces the available states at a given energy by having a band offset that creates a barrier for the minority carriers (here, the electrons) and it creates an electrostatic barrier, for example a pp+ junction (sometimes called a back-surface field)109. Another concept to improve selectivity, at present only used in Cu(In,Ga)Se2 technology, involves increasing the bandgap of the p-type absorber by changing the Ga-to-In ratio (Fig. 4m), resulting in bandgap grading. Assuming that the doping density is kept constant as a function of the composition and high enough to fix the hole density to a certain value, the energy difference between the valence-band maximum and the Fermi level will remain constant throughout the neutral region. The Fermi level is flat in equilibrium, and so will be the valence-band maximum, implying that any bandgap increase will increase the energy difference between the Fermi level and conduc- tion band minimum. This difference will increase towards the hole contact and reduce the density of electrons, thereby making direct semiconductormetal interfaces compatible with 23% solar-cell tech- nology. The disadvantage of this approach (as described above) is that with a spatially graded bandgap, the optical absorption onset is less steep than with a single bandgap  because there is a smaller volume of low-bandgap material in the device  leading to loss in the achiev- able photocurrent. In both pin and nip architectures of HaP cells, the presence of HTL and ETL provides selectivity in charge collection thanks to both valence-band and conduction-band maximum offset(s) at the interface(s) (Fig. 4l). Tandem and multi-junction solar cells There are several ways to go beyond the conversion efficiency limits set by the SQ model, all of which entail violating one of the models assumptions12,110. We ignore concentrating sunlight, because this can still be treated within the SQ model as follows. The light concentration effectively increases the optical area of the solar cell compared to its geometric area. As a result, the entropic (etendue) loss is decreased, because effectively the solar cell behaves as if it is closer to the Sun than the Earth by a factor equal to the concentration ratio. At present, the only viable way around the limit set by the SQ model is to stack several cells, composed of different PV materials with decreasing bandgaps, on top of each other (with the highest-Eg material on top). By ingeniously ensuring the optical transparency of the com- plete higher-bandgap cells for sub-bandgap photons, these tandem or multi-junction cells111 allow for a larger fraction of the sunlight to be converted to electrical power than a single cell. Each individual cell still follows the SQ model, but with only its own part of the solar spectrum as photon input. Until now, tandem or other types of multi-junction cell have been costly and used nearly exclusively in space. The James Webb telescope, the Hubble telescope, and the International Space Station use triple-junction arrays made of foldable panels of (Ga,In)P/GaAs/Ge triple tandem (XTE-HF) cells112114. There are major fundamental differences between tandem cells with two or four contacts (Fig. 5a). The use of two contacts implies that the photocurrent is at best half that of the lower-bandgap cell, but the voltage is more than doubled (again relative to the lower-bandgap cell). Thus, efficiency can increase for combinations of materials that split the available photon flux above the lower bandgap into two equal Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 347 Review article halves. The four-terminal configuration relaxes this condition and does not require recombination junctions between cells, but at the cost of two additional transparent contacts that lead to parasitic absorption. Here, the two cells are still optically in series, but their electrical con- nections are separate. In principle, they could even power separate DCAC converters, bypassing the stringent condition for two-terminal tandems that photocurrents need to be matched over as wide a range of the daily and seasonal insolation variation as possible. Group IIIV-based multi-junctions (Fig. 5b) (with (Ga,In)P as the wide-bandgap cell and GaAs as the low-bandgap cell) is a mature technology allowing a high number of junctions in series (2 to 6) but at high costs. As an alternative, HaPSi tandems (Fig. 5b) are being actively researched, because HaP materials can be engineered to have the right bandgap to match that of c-Si in a tandem cell. Replacing (Ga,In)P reduces the cost and energy expenditure generally needed for the fabrication of IIIV solar cells. Another example is the HaP/HaP tandem cell (Fig. 5b), representative of thin-film tandem cells (that is, without either c-Si or IIIV-based cells). These types of tandem solar cell could reduce the cost of production further by allowing the use of printing or low-temperature vacuum processes that minimize the energy embedded in their fabrication. In a two-terminal tandem solar cell, for one electron and one hole to be collected at their respective junctions, two photons (one per junc- tion) need to be absorbed (Fig. 5c). Furthermore, one recombination process must happen at the recombination junction between the two solar cells. In this case, holes going from the high-bandgap cell to the right (red arrow in Fig. 5c) must recombine with electrons going from the low-bandgap cell to the left (towards the recombination junction) (blue arrow in Fig. 5c). The efficiency potential of two-terminal tandem solar cells can be predicted within the framework of an extended SQ model, where the two sub-cells are assumed to be idealized in the same way as in the single-junction SQ model (Fig. 5d). Thus, the only relevant property is the bandgap of each sub-cell material. The currently investigated band- gap combinations for tandem solar cells are somewhat larger than ideal (0.9 eV and 1.6 eV would be close to ideal), but are mostly still in a region where efficiencies of 43% are theoretically possible. The exception is the IIIV/IIIV tandem, for which the bandgap is substantially too large. Contact layer Glass Passivation layer ETL/HTL Recombination layer Tunnel junction Metal TCO Top cell Bottom cell Transparent tunnel barrier Thin-film/Si Thin-fiIm/thin-fiIm Two-terminal tandem a b c d Four-terminal tandem IIIV/IIIV p+ GaAs substrate NBG GaAs cell Eg2 Eg1 Ev Ec Energy Position 1.4 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 30 32 35 37 40 37 35 45 45 43 42 1.8 1.9 2.0 1.3 1.2 1.1 1.0 0.8 0.9 Lower bandgap Eg1 (eV) Higher bandgap Eg2 (eV) (Ga,In)P/GaAs: 32.8% HaP/HaP: 28.2% HaP/CIGS: 24.2% HaP/Si: 34.6% WBG HaP c-Si WBG HaP NBG HaP NBG absorber WBG absorber Transparent insulating barrier NBG absorber WBG absorber WBG GaInP cell Fig. 5 | State-of-the-art efficiency and potential of different types of tandem solar cell. a, Comparison between two-terminal and four-terminal tandem solar cells. b, Various schematic layer stacks of different families of tandem solar cells: those made entirely of group IIIV semiconductors, those that combine wide- bandgap (WBG) halide perovskite (HaP) materials with crystalline silicon (c-Si) as well as pure thin-film tandems. c, Schematic band diagram of a two-terminal tandem solar cell. One collected electron or hole requires two photons to be absorbed and one recombination event at the recombination junction in the middle between the two sub-cells. The blue arrows in the conduction band mean movement or thermalization of electrons, and the red arrows in the valence band mean movement or thermalization of holes. Blue photon is higher energy photon, red photon is lower energy photon. d, Efficiency limit contours for two-junction tandem solar cells as a function of the bandgaps of the two cells. The contours are calculated for illumination with the AM1.5G spectrum. The superimposed symbols represent current record efficiencies of different types of tandem solar cell, measured under AM1.5G insolation. CIGS, Cu(In,Ga)Se2; ETL, electro-transport layer; HTL, hole-transport layer; NBG, narrow bandgap; TCO, transparent conductive oxide. Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 348 Review article Large efficiency improvements over the past few years have been achieved primarily with various HaP-based tandem solar cells. The most efficient ones are currently HaP-Si tandem solar cells with a pub- lished (peer-reviewed) record efficiency of 33.9%115 and 34.6% in the efficiency tables116. These are the first tandem cells to exceed the ideal SQ single-junction efficiency limit of 33.7%. Other schemes, such as c-Si/c-Si tandem cells yield higher pho- togenerated carrier concentrations in each cell than can be achieved in thinner c-Si cells, thus achieving higher VOC values117119. Meanwhile, the development of a-Si-based tandems focused primarily on two predominant types of design: a-Si/a-SiGe and a-Si/μc-Si (with micro- crystalline Si). Today a-Si is mainly used in combination with c-Si as a contact layer (Fig. 4c). In addition, pure organic and organic/HaP tandem cells, which are compatible with flexible substrates, are being explored. Low-efficiency OPV-based tandem modules can still be com- mercial for special uses, especially when flexible and lightweight devices are needed. To summarize, multi-junction solar cells currently generate strong interest both in academia and industry, given that efficient multi- junction solar cells can now be fabricated at a moderate added cost (compared to the dominant c-Si technology)120. Cell-to-module transition The PV solar-to-electrical power-conversion efficiency can be math- ematically expressed as η = ( JSCVOCFF)/Pin. Dividing each quantity by their respective maximum value in the SQ model yields a normalized version of this equation29: η η J J V V FF FF = (1) real SQ sc real sc SQ oc real oc SQ real SQ This relation can be calculated for all record solar cells (Fig. 6a) and modules (Fig. 6b), which allows a comparison of the specific strengths and weaknesses of different technologies. PV technologies take decades to mature from a laboratory-based research topic to a mature technology that is of commercial relevance (Fig. 6ce). The first Si solar cells with noteworthy efficiencies resulted from the work of Chapin, Fuller and Pearson at Bell Labs in 1954 (ref. 121). c-Si cells reached laboratory efficiencies of 25% (according to the cur- rently used solar spectrum) in 1999 (ref. 122). At present, efficiency increases are slow because only a small gap remains between todays 27.4% top efficiency116 and the 29% Auger recombination-limited efficiency attainable for c-Si cells94. The importance of PV for the energy transition started when the cell technology was already fairly mature. In 2000, the global cumu- lative installed PV capacity was approximately 800 MWp, whereas it is currently nearly 2 TWpin early 2025. Thus, although the record c-Si solar-cell efficiency showed only a 2% absolute increase, the global installed capacity increased close to 2,000-fold, showing that the com- mercial success of a technology can take a long time from laboratory demonstration. A first prerequisite for a commercially viable PV technology is the successful transition from laboratory cells to production-line modules. Depending on the module technology (that is, wafer-based or integrated series connection, the latter of which is typical for thin- film solar cells) various efficiency losses result. These losses orig- inate for instance from scaling up a process to larger areas, which often results in increased series resistance losses owing to the need for lateral electrical conduction. The areas of c-Si cells have always been relatively large compared to other cell types. The 1999 record efficiency122 was obtained on a 4-cm² cell, whereas the first result above 26% (in 2017)123 was already obtained on a more industrially relevant 180-cm² cell. For HaP and OPV, it is still common to report record efficiencies on cells of a few square millimetres. When efficiencies as a function of cell area are reported, a strong efficiency decrease with increase in area is seen. For example, a 0.08-cm² solar cell with a certified 25.4% efficiency yielded an efficiency of 23.3% when the area was increased to 1 cm² and of 20.6% for 64-cm² cells124. Similar efficiencies for 1 cm² were achieved in other works125. However, there are only a few reports for the emerging OPV and HaP PV technologies, and substantial efforts are still required to close the efficiency gap between small laboratory-scale cells and commercial modules. The US National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) publishes record efficiencies of cells (from 1975) and modules (from 1988) as a function of date, whereby each entry is based on a certified meas- urement by an independent test laboratory. Over the last 12 years, the cell efficiencies (ηcell) of the two most mature technologies (GaAs, Si) have improved only slightly, but are still the best of all single-junction solar cells (Fig. 6c). The efficiency of CIGS and CdTe cells has improved more substantially, but the record efficiency is still lower than for GaAs or Si. At present, CdTe module efficiency is not far from its standard 1-cm2 cell efficiency. Hence, higher-efficiency CdTe modules are a real possibility once the standard cell efficiency improves. The real problem, which seems to be common to all thin-film technologies, is to improve the FF values of the modules. Here, one factor that works in favour of CdTe technology is the maturity of large-area module fabrication, which is reflected in CdTe having the largest module area in the list of efficiency records99 (Fig. 6b). Finally, the two technologies that allow solution processing of the absorber layers have shown by far the largest efficiency improvements within the past few years. The first certified efficiency of a small area HaP cell (14.1%) was in 2013 (ref. 126). Now the best cell efficiencies are only slightly below that of c-Si cells, although these efficiencies are measured for substan- tially smaller cell areas. OPV has seen substantial increases in effi- ciency especially within the past 6 years, owing to the development of non-fullerene acceptor molecules127. However, OPV still struggle to reach 20% certified efficiency. Module efficiencies ηmodule follow a similar trend to cell efficiencies, but the differences between technologies are even more important, especially when comparing the mature technologies (GaAs, Si) and the thin-film technologies (CIGS, CdTe, HaP, OPV). The ratio ηcell/ηmodule helps us to compare the cell-to-module gap (Fig. 6e) for the different technologies; this ratio is over 90% for silicon but is slightly lower than 70%, for instance, for HaP materials. Thus, even without improv- ing cell efficiencies, substantial gains in module efficiencies may still be feasible in emerging thin-film PV technologies. Figure 6f shows the efficiencies of mini-cells (1 cm2 area), standard cells (1 cm2), labratory modules and commercial modules for each technology. These plots are compared in Fig. 6g, which shows the relative efficiency decrease for the different technologies as the cell and module areas increase. Reasons behind the larger cell-to-module efficiency gaps in thin- film technologies are varied128. An important advantage of wafer over thin-film technology is the ability to sort cells into bins based on their efficiency and then choose cells with similar efficiency to make one module. The integrated series connection used in thin-film technol- ogy does not allow this approach, which leads to losses due to current mismatch at the MPP. Furthermore, to achieve current collection over Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 349 Review article larger areas (as needed in a module), more conductive transparent elec- trodes are needed than for small cells, which leads to increases in para- sitic absorption and, consequently a loss in photocurrent. This issue is less problematic in c-Si technology, where the lateral conductivity of the transparent conductive oxides is supported by the high lateral conductivity of the (relatively thick) silicon wafer itself129, which allows larger-area modules to be made with very low loss in efficiency (Fig. 6g). In thin-film technologies, this effect is absent, owing to the much lower 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 0 100 500 1,000 1,400 10,000 20,000 0.6 0.8 1.0 GaAs 0.998 cm2 c-Si 165.72 cm2 Perovskite 1.0347 cm2 CIGS 1.043 cm2 CdTe 1.062 cm2 OPV 1.064 cm2 15.8% 21% 23.4% 25.2% 27.4% η = 29.1% η = 25.1% Jsc/Jsc SQ FF/FFSQ Voc/Voc SQ Jsc/Jsc SQ FF/FFSQ Voc/Voc SQ a GaAs 866 cm2 c-Si 18,342 cm2 CdTe 23,582 cm2 CIGS 841 cm2 HaP 809.9 cm2 OPV 204.11 cm2 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Percentage of SQ eﬀiciency 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Percentage of SQ eﬀiciency 25.4% 19.5% 19.2% 18.6% 14.5% b GaAs Si (SHJ) CIGS CdTe HaP OPV 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 Technology Mini cell Standard cell Laboratory module Commercial module c Solar-cell eﬀiciency ηcell (%) Eﬀiciency η (%) Module eﬀiciency ηmodule (%) Year Si HaP GaAs CIGS CdTe OPV d Year Si HaP GaAs CIGS CdTe OPV e Year Si HaP GaAs CIGS CdTe OPV f Eﬀiciency η (normalized) Area (cm2) Open: cell Solid: module g CIGS CdTe HaP GaAs Si Ratio ηmodule /ηcell OPV Fig. 6 | Comparison between the efficiency development of record solar cells and modules. a,b, Percentages by which different record solar cells (panel a) and record solar modules (panel b) fall below the ideal ShockleyQueisser (SQ) efficiencies. For illustration, we use a bar plot, where each segment represents a loss in short-circuit current density ( JSC), fill factor (FF) and open-circuit voltage (VOC) corresponding to a multiplicative factor in equation (1). To make the plot independent of the order of the losses, the percentages are plotted on a logarithmic scale so that the individual segments add up to the total loss29,145,146. For modules, only data that allowed deducing the number of cells were used. The area of the cell or module is given below the name of each technology. c, Record efficiency of solar cells of different technologies. d, Record efficiency of solar modules of different technologies. e, Ratio of record module to record solar-cell efficiency. f, Record efficiencies of commercial modules (if available), laboratory modules, small ( or 1 cm2) cells and 1 cm2 cells; for crystalline silicon (c-Si), the cell area is 165 cm2; for GaAs, both 1 and 1 cm2 entries are for the same 0.998 cm2 cell; for Cu(In,Ga)Se2 (CIGS), the values are 23.6% and 23.4%, respectively. Commercial module data are from company websites for c-Si (24.3%), CIGS (17%), CdTe (19.3%), HaP (17.2%) and organic photovoltaic (OPV) (8%, which is for a triple-junction module). g, Normalized efficiencies for the various photovoltaic technologies as a function of device area. Except where specifically noted otherwise, all data for cells and modules are from ref. 116 and NREL cell and module efficiency charts. SHJ, Si heterojunction. Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 350 Review article thickness and reduced conductivity of the absorbers. The FF values of the thin-film cells are lower than of the single-crystal cells, with further decreases in modules, leading to an overall decrease in efficiency. The severe size-dependent efficiency decreases in OPV and HaP (from cell to module) is presumably due to the sub-optimal charge transport properties of the selective contact layers. This drop in efficiency for these technologies must be addressed for viable c-Si/thin-film tan- dems to become commercial. The fabrication of a HaPSi tandem module with a 26.9% efficiency on a commercially relevant module area (1.6 m²) is promising in that context116. This implies that ηcell/ηmodule for perovskite-Si tandems is nearly 80%, substantially better than for single-junction HaP materials. Outlook The seven decades of solar-cell development have taught us that only very few absorber materials eventually develop into viable solar-cell technologies. Based on the production data of 2023, the market is completely dominated by c-Si modules, with the remaining market share taken up by thin-film technologies (primarily CdTe). However, academic research focuses on different aspects compared to the com- mercial reality of photovoltaics. For all practical purposes, single-cell c-Si and c-GaAs technologies are approaching their efficiency limits, with a diminishing return for any further efficiency improvement. Fur- thermore, academic research on these technologies is expensive and, especially in the case of c-Si, keeping up with industrial research and development efforts is difficult. Traditional inorganic thin-film tech- nologies such as CIGS and CdTe still have potential for substantial cell and module efficiency increases, but struggle competing commercially with the much larger silicon industry. Emerging material families such as halide perovskites and OPVs draw the most academic interest owing to their low barriers for scientific engagement, large potential for high efficiency, and because they can be prepared and processed under mild conditions. These incentives have triggered academic interest to achieve upscaling to larger areas, improve their device lifetimes and further increase their efficiency. The stellar rise of HaP-based PV cells and the substantial improve- ment seen in OPV with the introduction of non-fullerene acceptors prove that materials research can still hold surprises in PV. With these relatively recent developments in mind, it is pertinent to explore ways to acceler- ate the discovery of new absorber, transport and contact materials that can improve the efficiency, stability, and cost of PV devices. Recently, important progress has been made towards improving materials and Glossary Built-in electrostatic potential difference The difference between the electrostatic potentials at short circuit between the electron- and hole-collecting contacts, a major contributor to the selectivity of the device. Detailed balance This principle is a consequence of the first law of thermodynamics, which states that the equilibrium rate of every microscopic process must be identical to the equilibrium rate of its inverse process. Diffused emitter The highly doped part of a classical pn homojunction crystalline-Si solar cell, which is a crucial part of classical solar-cell designs such as the passivated emitter and rear cell (PERC); it is notably absent in designs such as silicon heterojunction solar cells as well as in all thin-film solar cells. Graded bandgaps Gradual change in the bandgap of a multinary absorber material. Halide perovskite (HaP). Materials with a A+B2+X 3 stoichiometry, where A is a large monovalent cation  either inorganic, such as caesium (Cs) or organic, mostly methylammonium (MA) or formamidinium (FA)  X is a halide, mostly iodide or bromide, and B is, for high-efficiency devices, still exclusively Pb. Heterojunctions Junctions between two different semiconductors. Integrated series connection A method in module fabrication where line cuts are made through part or all the deposited stack on a substrate to isolate adjacent front and back contacts and to create an electrically conductive connection between one cells back contact and the adjacent cells front contact. Kerf losses Material wasted during the ingot and wafer-slicing process. Levelized cost of electricity The total expected cost of electricity produced divided by the total amount of electricity that is expected to be generated over the lifetime predicted for the specific technology and system. Multi-junction An integrated stack of solar cells, normally consisting of absorber layers that cover different light-absorption ranges. Non-fullerene acceptors Small-molecule acceptors replacing the widely used fullerenes to provide electron-accepting and electron-conducting pathways. Passivation Strategy to reduce the defect density or the recombination activity of defects in the bulk or at the surfaces of semiconductors by chemical and physical modification. Radiative recombination The only strictly unavoidable recombination mechanism, the inverse of absorption. Because of the detailed balance principle, it must be allowed if absorption is allowed; hence it can only be avoided by having a transparent (that is, non-absorbing) solar cell, thus eliminating its photovoltaic function. Recombination junctions Junctions between each pair of sub-cells of a two-terminal multi-junction (tandem) solar cell, at which current continuity requires electrons and holes to recombine, often by tunnelling from the conduction band to the valence band between two highly doped semiconductors. Selective contacts The ability to support the flow of electrons to the electron contact (and holes to the hole contact) and to suppress their flows towards the respective wrong contact. Single junction Photovoltaic cell with a single absorber layer and a single absorption threshold. This situation is also one of the assumptions of the ShockleyQueisser model. Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 351 Review article device acceleration platforms130133 and theoretical material-screening methods134. Furthermore, there is an increasing effort to store data in shared, curated and searchable databases135. Still, it is likely that  as was the case for the established PV technol- ogies (c-Si, CIGS and CdTe)  the transition of a promising PV technol- ogy from academic research to a commercially viable product will need to be driven by commercial entities. Once academic research achieves sufficiently attractive levels of efficiency and stability, industry can take over. Further enhancements in cell and module efficiency typically involve fine-tuning processes related to material and device fabrication on a (much) larger scale than what is possible in academia. Especially for HaP and OPV technologies, many startup companies stand alongside established ones at the development forefront. We anticipate a faster development pace with these technologies thanks to the current clear and present danger view of the environmental sustainability of energy (and resources, in general). A larger commercialization of tandem solar cells beyond their niche applications (for example, in space) requires large-area cells and modules. The maturity of c-Si technology in producing large-area cells and modules with a suitable bandgap means that it is almost a default choice for use as the low-bandgap cell material in tandems. HaP- or possibly organic-absorber-based cells may be able to replace the highly efficient but expensive (Ga,In)P top wide-bandgap cells, in which the ability to tune HaP or organic optical absorption thresholds is an important feature (as it was for (Ga,In)P). A major challenge for the above-mentioned high-efficiency HaP on Si tandem cells is to increase their area well above the present 1 cm2 to enable the use of commercial c-Si wafers. In parallel, HaP (wide Eg) on HaP (narrow Eg), or HaP (wide Eg) on CIGS hold promise for flexible tandem devices. Although solar-cell technology is usually presented as being green, there are still several environmental and sustainability con- cerns that need to be addressed. In reality, no solar-cell technology can immediately qualify as green in terms of zero or negative fossil-fuel use, CO2 emissions or recyclability. Producing solar panels requires an initial energy investment, and the energy payback time (EPBT) varies across different technologies. EPBT values are influenced by both the production location and the operational environment. Over the years, the EPBT of c-Si has declined owing to increased cumulative production and reductions in kerf losses. However, the high Si volume required and stringent purity standards for solar-cell applications mean that the EPBT of c-Si is some 2.7 times higher than that of CdTe136. In thin-film technologies like CdTe, most embodied energy stems from substrates, frames and assembly processes (part of the balance-of-systems cost), whereas the semiconductor thin film itself contributes less than 1%. For OPV and HaP modules, shorter EPBT times are anticipated, thanks to low-temperature semiconductor fabrication processes and the use of thin films (around 1 μm). Although OPV and HaP solar cells have shorter lifespans compared to c-Si and CdTe, their reduced EPBT and compatibility in tandem-cell applications make them appealing. When comparing EPBTs over different studies and technologies, it is crucial to consider which components of the PV system are included in the calculation  whether at the solar-cell, module or system level. Although HaP technology has shown high efficiency and benefits from its ease of processing, concerns persist regarding the toxicity of lead (Pb)137. Comprehensive life cycle analyses and field tests of this technology are still ongoing. Once the long-term operational stabil- ity of HaP technology is achieved, its benefits are likely to outweigh potential environmental risks. Additionally, countermeasures such as deploying reagents capable of forming PbS, a compound with low water solubility, could mitigate the environmental impact in case of Pb HaP leaching into the environment138. Ecotoxicity was feared for Cd used in CdTe and CIGS (where CdS is used as the buffer layer). Unlike Pb in HaP materials, for Cd the ther- mal and chemical stability of CdTe, CdSe and CdS is very high. The solubility of Cd compounds in water (for which the solubility product Ksp = 1027 to 1034) is also much lower138140 than that of Pb dihalides (the HaP decomposition products). Therefore, Cd bioavailability from catastrophic destruction of PV panels on land is very low, provided that the CdTe from broken panels is not exposed to acidic conditions, which can cause a higher amount of Cd leaching to the environment140. Both CIGS and CdTe technologies use elements with relatively low abundance in the Earths crust (Ga, In, Te), which are mined only as byproducts of others (Al, Zn and Cu, respectively)24,141. Additionally, there is a huge demand for these materials in other industries (for exam- ple, for In in displays), which raises doubts about the economic sustain- ability of these technologies. There is thus also a need to develop viable material-recycling schemes as part of the end-of-life plans for PV plants. Of the single-junction technologies discussed here, c-Si, CdTe and CIGS technologies are fully ready for deployment, with c-Si being the market leader. Although commercial modules for OPV and HaP are available, their market share is almost nil at present. For these technologies, production processes still require optimization for high-volume manufacturing. Although numerous accelerated stabil- ity tests have been conducted for OPV and HaP, the long-term (several years) performance and reliability under real-world conditions remain uncertain. These challenges need to be tackled before they can become major players in the PV market. The large functional lifetime gap is, at the time of writing, the challenge for c-Si/HaP tandem technology (and a possible future c-Si/OPV one). In outdoor operations, the rela- tive degradation of c-Si/HaP tandems was found to be 17% per year120, whereas the relative degradation of commercially available Si solar cells is 0.5% per year142. The transition from laboratory breakthrough in PV to market-ready products is a complex process involving multiple stages, each with its own challenges. This journey requires continuous collaboration across scientific, economic and policy domains. In addition to the technical challenges that we discussed, the policy environment has an important role in the commercialization of solar cells. A supportive global policy framework is essential for advancing the commercialization of new PV technologies. Published online: 20 March 2025 References 1. Victoria, M. et al. Solar photovoltaics is ready to power a sustainable future. Joule 5, 10411056 (2021). 2. Loferski, J. J. The first forty years: a brief history of the modern photovoltaic age. Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 1, 6778 (1993). 3. Branker, K., Pathak, M. J. M. & Pearce, J. M. A review of solar photovoltaic levelized cost of electricity. Renew. Sust. Energy Rev. 15, 44704482 (2011). 4. Shen, W. et al. A comprehensive review of variable renewable energy levelized cost of electricity. Renew. Sust. Energy Rev. 133, 110301 (2020). 5. Creutzig, F. et al. The underestimated potential of solar energy to mitigate climate change. Nat. Energy 2, 17140 (2017). 6. Haegel, N. M. et al. Terawatt-scale photovoltaics: transform global energy. Science 364, 836838 (2019). 7. Kaspar, F. et al. A climatological assessment of balancing effects and shortfall risks of photovoltaics and wind energy in Germany and Europe. Adv. Sci. Res. 16, 119128 (2019). 8. Muñoz-Pincheira, J. L., Salazar, L., Sanhueza, F. & Lüer-Villagra, A. Temporal complementarity analysis of wind and solar power potential for distributed hybrid electric generation in Chile. Energies 17, 1890 (2024). 9. Stern, R. et al. Photovoltaic fields largely outperform afforestation efficiency in global climate change mitigation strategies. PNAS Nexus 2, pgad352 (2023). Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 352 Review article 10. Leger, D. et al. Photovoltaic-driven microbial protein production can use land and sunlight more efficiently than conventional crops. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA 118, e2015025118 (2021). 11. Green, M. A. Third generation photovoltaics: solar cells for 2020 and beyond. Phys. E 14, 6570 (2002). 12. Green, M. A. Third generation photovoltaics: ultra-high conversion efficiency at low cost. Prog. Photovolt. 9, 123135 (2001). 13. Rong, Y. G. et al. Challenges for commercializing perovskite solar cells. Science 361, eaat8235 (2018). 14. Kettle, J. et al. Review of technology-specific degradation in c-Si, CdTe, CIGS, dye sensitised, organic and perovskite solar cells in photovoltaic modules: understanding how reliability improvements in mature technologies can enhance emerging technologies. Prog. Photovolt. 30, 13651392 (2022). 15. Brinkmann, K. O. et al. Perovskite-organic tandem solar cells. Nat. Rev. Mater. 9, 202217 (2024). 16. Zhu, H. W. et al. Long-term operating stability in perovskite photovoltaics. Nat. Rev. Mater. 8, 569586 (2023). 17. Duan, L. P. et al. Stability challenges for the commercialization of perovskite-silicon tandem solar cells. Nat. Rev. Mater. 8, 261281 (2023). 18. Peters, I. M., Hauch, J., Brabec, C. & Sinha, P. The value of stability in photovoltaics. Joule 5, 31373153 (2021). 19. Schüpfer, D., Wagner-Wenz, R., Hendrich, K. & Weidenkaff, A. Materials come around and go around: adapting to natures circularity. MRS Bull. 48, 11841189 (2023). 20. Prince, K. J. et al. Sustainability pathways for perovskite photovoltaics. Nat. Mater. 24, 2233 (2024). 21. Ndalloka, Z. N., Nair, H. V., Alpert, S. & Schmid, C. Solar photovoltaic recycling strategies. Sol. Energy 270, 112379 (2024). 22. Calì, M., Hajji, B., Nitto, G. & Acri, A. The design value for recycling end-of-life photovoltaic panels. Appl. Sci. 12, 9092 (2022). 23. Peters, I. M., Hauch, J. & Brabec, C. Cradle-to-cradle recycling in terawatt photovoltaics: a vision of perpetual utility. Joule 8, 899912 (2024). 24. Goldschmidt, J. C., Wagner, L., Pietzcker, R. & Friedrich, L. Technological learning for resource efficient terawatt scale photovoltaics. Energy Env. Sci. 14, 51475160 (2021). 25. Wagner, L. et al. The resource demands of multi-terawatt-scale perovskite tandem photovoltaics. Joule 8, 11421160 (2024). 26. Peters, I. M., Hauch, J. A. & Brabec, C. J. The role of innovation for economy and sustainability of photovoltaic modules. iScience 25, 105208 (2022). 27. Shockley, W. & Queisser, H. J. Detailed balance limit of efficiency of p-n junction solar cells. J. Appl. Phys. 32, 510519 (1961). 28. Bridgman, P. W. Note on the principle of detailed balancing. Phys. Rev. 31, 101102 (1928). 29. Guillemoles, J. F., Kirchartz, T., Cahen, D. & Rau, U. Guide for the perplexed to the ShockleyQueisser model for solar cells. Nat. Photon. 13, 501505 (2019). 30. Henry, C. H. Limiting efficiencies of ideal single and multiple energy-gap terrestrial solar-cells. J. Appl. Phys. 51, 44944500 (1980). 31. Markvart, T. Thermodynamics of losses in photovoltaic conversion. Appl. Phys. Lett. 91, 064102 (2007). 32. Markvart, T. Solar cell as a heat engine: energy-entropy analysis of photovoltaic conversion. Phys. Status Solidi A 205, 27522756 (2008). 33. Markvart, T. The thermodynamics of optical etendue. J. Opt. A 10, 015008 (2008). 34. Guillemoles, J. F., Kirchartz, T., Cahen, D. & Rau, U. Reply to Ideal solar cell efficiencies. Nat. Photon. 15, 165166 (2021). 35. Taretto, K., Soldera, M. & Troviano, M. Accurate explicit equations for the fill factor of real solar cells  applications to thin-film solar cells. Prog. Photovolt. 21, 14891498 (2013). 36. Nayak, P. K., Mahesh, S., Snaith, H. J. & Cahen, D. Photovoltaic solar cell technologies: analysing the state of the art. Nat. Rev. Mater. 4, 269285 (2019). 37. Ballif, C., Haug, F. J., Boccard, M., Verlinden, P. J. & Hahn, G. Status and perspectives of crystalline silicon photovoltaics in research and industry. Nat. Rev. Mater. 7, 597616 (2022). 38. Taguchi, M. Review  development history of high efficiency silicon heterojunction solar cell: from discovery to practical use. ECS J. Solid State Sci. Technol. 10, 025002 (2021). 39. Papež, N., Dallaev, R., Ţălu, Ş. & Kaštyl, J. Overview of the current state of gallium arsenide-based solar cells. Materials 14, 3075 (2021). 40. Salhi, B. The photovoltaic cell based on CIGS: principles and technologies. Materials 15, 1908 (2022). 41. Scarpulla, M. A. et al. CdTe-based thin film photovoltaics: recent advances, current challenges and future prospects. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. C 255, 112289 (2023). 42. Yang, C. et al. Achievements, challenges, and future prospects for industrialization of perovskite solar cells. Light Sci. Appl. 13, 227 (2024). 43. Luke, J., Yang, E. J., Labanti, C., Park, S. Y. & Kim, J.-S. Key molecular perspectives for high stability in organic photovoltaics. Nat. Rev. Mater. 8, 839852 (2023). 44. Allen, T. G., Bullock, J., Yang, X. B., Javey, A. & De Wolf, S. Passivating contacts for crystalline silicon solar cells. Nat. Energy 4, 914928 (2019). 45. Siebentritt, S. et al. Heavy alkali treatment of Cu(In,Ga)Se solar cells: surface versus bulk effects. Adv. Energy Mater. 10, 1903752 (2020). 46. Ramírez, O. et al. The effect of potassium fluoride postdeposition treatments on the optoelectronic properties of Cu(In,Ga)Se single crystals. RRL Sol. 5, 2000727 (2021). 47. Saliba, M. et al. Incorporation of rubidium cations into perovskite solar cells improves photovoltaic performance. Science 354, 206209 (2016). 48. Abdi-Jalebi, M. et al. Maximizing and stabilizing luminescence from halide perovskites with potassium passivation. Nature 555, 497501 (2018). 49. Rost, H. J., Luedge, A., Riemann, H., Kirscht, F. & Schulze, F. W. Float zone (FZ) silicon: a potential material for advanced commercial solar cells? Cryst. Res. Technol. 47, 273278 (2012). 50. Miller, O. D., Yablonovitch, E. & Kurtz, S. R. Strong internal and external luminescence as solar cells approach the ShockleyQueisser limit. IEEE J. Photovolt. 2, 303311 (2012). 51. Brandt, R. E., Stevanovic, V., Ginley, D. S. & Buonassisi, T. Identifying defect-tolerant semiconductors with high minority-carrier lifetimes: beyond hybrid lead halide perovskites. MRS Commun. 5, 265275 (2015). 52. Cahen, D., Kronik, L. & Hodes, G. Are defects in lead-halide perovskites healed, tolerated, or both? ACS Energy Lett. 6, 41084114 (2021). 53. Rau, U. & Kirchartz, T. Charge carrier collection and contact selectivity in solar cells. Adv. Mater. Interfaces 6, 1900252 (2019). 54. Roe, E. T., Egelhofer, K. E. & Lonergan, M. C. Limits of contact selectivity/recombination on the open-circuit voltage of a photovoltaic. ACS Appl. Energy Mater. 1, 10371046 (2018). 55. Brendel, R. & Peibst, R. Contact selectivity and efficiency in crystalline silicon photovoltaics. IEEE J. Photovolt. 6, 14131420 (2016). 56. Köhler, M. et al. A silicon carbide-based highly transparent passivating contact for crystalline silicon solar cells approaching efficiencies of 24%. Nat. Energy 6, 529537 (2021). 57. Yablonovitch, E. Statistical ray optics. J. Opt. Soc. Am. 72, 899907, (1982). 58. Kaienburg, P. et al. How solar cell efficiency is governed by the αμτ product. Phys. Rev. Res. 2, 023109 (2020). 59. Kirchartz, T. & Rau, U. What makes a good solar cell? Adv. Energy Mater. 8, 1703385 (2018). 60. Niemeyer, M. et al. Measurement of the non-radiative minority recombination lifetime and the effective radiative recombination coefficient in GaAs. AIP Adv. 9, 045034 (2019). 61. Richter, A., Glunz, S. W., Werner, F., Schmidt, J. & Cuevas, A. Improved quantitative description of Auger recombination in crystalline silicon. Phys. Rev. B 86, 165202 (2012). 62. Green, M. A., Ho-Baillie, A. & Snaith, H. J. The emergence of perovskite solar cells. Nat. Photon. 8, 506514 (2014). 63. De Wolf, S. et al. Organometallic halide perovskites: sharp optical absorption edge and its relation to photovoltaic performance. J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 5, 10351039 (2014). 64. Kiermasch, D., Baumann, A., Fischer, M., Dyakonov, V. & Tvingstedt, K. Revisiting lifetimes from transient electrical characterization of thin film solar cells; a capacitive concern evaluated for silicon, organic and perovskite devices. Energy Env. Sci. 11, 629640 (2018). 65. Azzouzi, M. et al. Overcoming the limitations of transient photovoltage measurements for studying recombination in organic solar cells. RRL Sol. 4, 1900581 (2020). 66. Kirchartz, T., Bisquert, J., Mora-Sero, I. & Garcia-Belmonte, G. Classification of solar cells according to mechanisms of charge separation and charge collection. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 17, 40074014, (2015). 67. Arora, N. D., Chamberlain, S. G. & Roulston, D. J. Diffusion length determination in p-n-junction diodes and solar-cells. Appl. Phys. Lett. 37, 325327 (1980). 68. Crandall, R. S. Modeling of thin-film solar cells  uniform-field approximation. J. Appl. Phys. 54, 71767186 (1983). 69. Crandall, R. S. Transport in hydrogenated amorphous-silicon p-i-n solar-cells. J. Appl. Phys. 53, 33503352 (1982). 70. Krüeckemeier, L., Liu, Z. F., Kirchartz, T. & Rau, U. Quantifying charge extraction and recombination using the rise and decay of the transient photovoltage of perovskite solar cells. Adv. Mater. 35, 2300872 (2023). 71. Breitenstein, O. An alternative one-diode model for illuminated solar cells. IEEE J. Photovolt. 4, 899905 (2014). 72. Sandberg, O. J. et al. On the question of the need for a built-in potential in perovskite solar cells. Adv. Mater. Interfaces 7, 2000041 (2020). 73. Urbach, F. The long-wavelength edge of photographic sensitivity and of the electronic absorption of solids. Phys. Rev. 92, 13241324 (1953). 74. Tiedje, T. Band tail recombination limit to the output voltage of amorphous-silicon solar cells. Appl. Phys. Lett. 40, 627629 (1982). 75. Wong, J., Omelchenko, S. T. & Atwater, H. A. Impact of semiconductor band tails and band filling on photovoltaic efficiency limits. ACS Energy Lett. 6, 5257 (2021). 76. Wolter, M. H. et al. How band tail recombination influences the open-circuit voltage of solar cells. Prog. Photovolt. 30, 702712 (2022). 77. Ramírez, O. et al. On the origin of tail states and open circuit voltage losses in Cu(In,Ga) Se2. RRL Sol. 7, 2300054 (2023). 78. Belas, E. et al. High temperature optical absorption edge of CdTe single crystal. J. Appl. Phys. 116, 103521 (2014). 79. Matsui, T. et al. High-efficiency amorphous silicon solar cells: impact of deposition rate on metastability. Appl. Phys. Lett. 106, 053901 (2015). 80. Ng, T. M. et al. Optoelectronic and spectroscopic characterization of vapour-transport grown CuZnSnS single crystals. J. Mater. Chem. A 5, 11921200 (2017). 81. Islam, M. M. et al. Determination of deep-level defects in Cu2ZnSn(S,Se)4 thin-films using photocapacitance method. Appl. Phys. Lett. 106, 243905 (2015). 82. Chantana, J., Kawano, Y., Nishimura, T., Mavlonov, A. & Minemoto, T. Impact of Urbach energy on open-circuit voltage deficit of thin-film solar cells. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. C 210, 110502 (2020). 83. Ugur, E. et al. Life on the Urbach edge. J. Phys. Chem. Lett. 13, 77027711 (2022). Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 353 Review article 84. Subha, T. D., Prabu, R. T., Parasuraman, S. & Kumar, A. Role of Urbach energy in controlling voltage output of solar cells. Opt. Quant. Electron. 55, 794 (2023). 85. Almora, O. et al. Quantifying the absorption onset in the quantum efficiency of emerging photovoltaic devices. Adv. Energy Mater. 11, 2100022 (2021). 86. Blakers, A. W., Wang, A., Milne, A. M., Zhao, J. H. & Green, M. A. 22.8-percent efficient silicon solar cell. Appl. Phys. Lett. 55, 13631365 (1989). 87. Green, M. A. The passivated emitter and rear cell (PERC): from conception to mass production. Sol. Energy Mat. Sol. C 143, 190197 (2015). 88. Richter, A. et al. Design rules for high-efficiency both-sides-contacted silicon solar cells with balanced charge carrier transport and recombination losses. Nat. Energy 6, 429438 (2021). 89. Ghosh, D. K. et al. Fundamentals, present status and future perspective of TOPCon solar cells: a comprehensive review. Surf. Interfaces 30, 101917 (2022). 90. Lin, H. et al. Silicon heterojunction solar cells with up to 26.81% efficiency achieved by electrically optimized nanocrystalline-silicon hole contact layers. Nat. Energy 8, 789799 (2023). 91. Wu, H. et al. Silicon heterojunction back-contact solar cells by laser patterning. Nature 635, 604609 (2024). 92. Lin, H. et al. Unveiling the mechanism of attaining high fill factor in silicon solar cells. Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 32, 359371 (2024). 93. Razzaq, A., Allen, T. G. & De Wolf, S. Design criteria for silicon solar cells with fill factors approaching the Auger limit. ACS Energy Lett. 8, 44384440 (2023). 94. Richter, A., Hermle, M. & Glunz, S. W. Reassessment of the limiting efficiency for crystalline silicon solar cells. IEEE J. Photovolt. 3, 11841191 (2013). 95. Keller, J. et al. High-concentration silver alloying and steep back-contact gallium grading enabling copper indium gallium selenide solar cell with 23.6% efficiency. Nat. Energy 9, 467478 (2024). 96. Fiducia, T. A. M. et al. Understanding the role of selenium in defect passivation for highly efficient selenium-alloyed cadmium telluride solar cells. Nat. Energy 4, 504511 (2019). 97. Zhao, Y. et al. Monocrystalline CdTe solar cells with open-circuit voltage over 1V and efficiency of 17%. Nat. Energy 1, 16067 (2016). 98. Gloeckler, M., Sankin, I. & Zhao, Z. CdTe solar cells at the threshold to 20% efficiency. IEEE J. Photovolt. 3, 13891393 (2013). 99. Green, M. A. et al. Solar cell efficiency tables (version 63). Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 32, 313 (2023). 100. Burst, J. M. et al. CdTe solar cells with open-circuit voltage breaking the 1 V barrier. Nat. Energy 1, 16015 (2016). 101. Guo, S. X. et al. Non-uniform chemical corrosion of metal electrode of p-i-n type of perovskite solar cells caused by the diffusion of CH3NH3I. Energy Technol. Ger. 8, 2000250 (2020). 102. Chen, C. L. et al. Effect of BCP buffer layer on eliminating charge accumulation for high performance of inverted perovskite solar cells. RSC Adv. 7, 3581935826 (2017). 103. Muñoz-García, A. B. et al. Dye-sensitized solar cells strike back. Chem. Soc. Rev. 50, 1245012550 (2021). 104. Dhonde, M. et al. Recent advancements in dye-sensitized solar cells; from photoelectrode to counter electrode. J. Electrochem. Soc. 169, 066507 (2022). 105. Korir, B. K., Kibet, J. K. & Ngari, S. M. A review on the current status of dyesensitized solar cells: toward sustainable energy. Energy Sci. Eng. 12, 139 (2024). 106. Kröger, M. et al. P-type doping of organic wide band gap materials by transition metal oxides: a case study on molybdenum trioxide. Org. Electron. 10, 932938 (2009). 107. Kahn, A. Fermi level, work function and vacuum level. Mater. Horiz. 3, 710 (2016). 108. Wang, T. et al. Shifting the paradigm: a functional hole-selective transport layer for chalcopyrite solar cells. RRL Sol. 8, 2400212 (2024). 109. Cuevas, A. & Yan, D. Misconceptions and misnomers in solar cells. IEEE J. Photovolt. 3, 916923 (2013). 110. Green, M. A. Third-Generation Photovoltaics: Advanced Solar Energy Conversion 1st edn (Springer, 2003). 111. Alberi, K. et al. A roadmap for tandem photovoltaics. Joule 8, 658692 (2024). 112. Spence, B. R. et al. International Space Station (ISS) roll-out solar array (ROSA) spaceflight experiment mission and results. In 7th World Conf. Photovolt. Energy Convers. 35223529 (IEEE, 2018). 113. Chiu, P. T. et al. Qualification of 32% BOL and 28% EOL efficient XTE solar cells. In 46th Photovolt. Special. Conf. 15061509 (IEEE, 2019). 114. Law, D. C. et al. Development of XTJ targeted environment (XTE) solar cells for specific space applications. In 7th World Conf. Photovolt. Energy Convers. 33603363 (IEEE, 2018). 115. Liu, J. et al. Perovskite/silicon tandem solar cells with bilayer interface passivation. Nature 635, 596603 (2024). 116. Green, MartinA. et al. Solar cell efficiency tables (version 65). Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 33, 315 (2024). 117. Kim, J. et al. Highly efficient bifacial silicon/silicon tandem solar cells. IEEE Access. 11, 2132621331 (2023). 118. Green, M. A. Crystalline and polycrystalline silicon tandem junction solar cells: theoretical advantages. Sol. Cell 18, 3140 (1986). 119. Haug, F. J. & Ballif, C. A recalculation of the efficiency limit in crystalline Si/Si tandem solar cells. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. C 224, 111008 (2021). 120. Aydin, E. et al. Pathways toward commercial perovskite/silicon tandem photovoltaics. Science 383, eadh3849 (2024). 121. Chapin, D. M., Fuller, C. S. & Pearson, G. L. A new silicon p-n junction photocell for converting solar radiation into electrical power. J. Appl. Phys. 25, 676677 (1954). 122. Zhao, J. H., Wang, A. H. & Green, M. A. 24.5% efficiency silicon PERT cells on MCZ substrates and 24.7% efficiency PERL cells on FZ substrates. Prog. Photovolt. 7, 471474 (1999). 123. Yoshikawa, K. et al. Silicon heterojunction solar cell with interdigitated back contacts for a photoconversion efficiency over 26%. Nat. Energy 2, 17032 (2017). 124. Kim, M. et al. Conformal quantum dot-SnO layers as electron transporters for efficient perovskite solar cells. Science 375, 302306 (2022). 125. Peng, J. et al. Centimetre-scale perovskite solar cells with fill factors of more than 86 per cent. Nature 601, 573578 (2022). 126. Green, M. A., Emery, K., Hishikawa, Y., Warta, W. & Dunlop, E. D. Solar cell efficiency tables (version 42). Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 21, 827837 (2013). 127. Meredith, P., Li, W. & Armin, A. Nonfullerene acceptors: a renaissance in organic photovoltaics? Adv. Energy Mater. 10, 2001788 (2020). 128. Bermudez, V. & Perez-Rodriguez, A. Understanding the cell-to-module efficiency gap in Cu(In,Ga) (S,Se) photovoltaics scale-up. Nat. Energy 3, 466475 (2018). 129. Li, S. H. et al. Transparent-conductive-oxide-free front contacts for high-efficiency silicon heterojunction solar cells. Joule 5, 15351547 (2021). 130. Zhao, Y. et al. A bilayer conducting polymer structure for planar perovskite solar cells with over 1,400 hours operational stability at elevated temperatures. Nat. Energy 7, 144152 (2022). 131. Zhang, J., Hauch, J. A. & Brabec, C. J. Toward self-driven autonomous material and device acceleration platforms (AMADAP) for emerging photovoltaics technologies. Acc. Chem. Res. 57, 14341445 (2024). 132. Liu, C. et al. Understanding causalities in organic photovoltaics device degradation in a machine-learning-driven high-throughput platform. Adv. Mater. 36, 2300259 (2024). 133. Wu, J. et al. Inverse design workflow discovers hole-transport materials tailored for perovskite solar cells. Science 386, 12561264 (2024). 134. Cole, J. M. A design-to-device pipeline for data-driven materials discovery. Acc. Chem. Res. 53, 599610 (2020). 135. Jacobsson, T. J. et al. An open-access database and analysis tool for perovskite solar cells based on the FAIR data principles. Nat. Energy 7, 107115 (2022). 136. Wikoff, H. M., Reese, S. B. & Reese, M. O. Embodied energy and carbon from the manufacture of cadmium telluride and silicon photovoltaics. Joule 6, 17101725 (2022). 137. Babayigit, A., Ethirajan, A., Muller, M. & Conings, B. Toxicity of organometal halide perovskite solar cells. Nat. Mater. 15, 247251 (2016). 138. Mendez, L. R. D., Breen, B. N. & Cahen, D. Lead sequestration from halide perovskite solar cells with a low-cost thiol-containing encapsulant. ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces 14, 2976629772 (2022). 139. Lee, C. C. & Lin, S. D. (eds) in Handbook of Environmental Engineering Calculations Ch. 1.7C (McGraw-Hill Education, 2007). 140. Zeng, C., Ramos-Ruiz, A., Field, J. A. & Sierra-Alvarez, R. Cadmium telluride (CdTe) and cadmium selenide (CdSe) leaching behavior and surface chemistry in response to pH and O2. J. Env. Manag. 154, 7885 (2015). 141. Kavlak, G., McNerney, J., Jaffe, R. L. & Trancik, J. E. Metal production requirements for rapid photovoltaics deployment. Energy Env. Sci. 8, 16511659 (2015). 142. Pascual, J. et al. Long-term degradation rate of crystalline silicon PV modules at commercial PV plants: an 82-MWp assessment over 10 years. Prog. Photovolt. Res. Appl. 29, 12941302 (2021). 143. Steiner, M. A. et al. Optical enhancement of the open-circuit voltage in high quality GaAs solar cells. J. Appl. Phys. 113, 123109 (2013). 144. Ochoa, M., Buecheler, S., Tiwari, A. N. & Carron, R. Challenges and opportunities for an efficiency boost of next generation Cu(In,Ga)Se solar cells: prospects for a paradigm shift. Energy Env. Sci. 13, 20472055 (2020). 145. Krückemeier, L., Rau, U., Stolterfoht, M. & Kirchartz, T. How to report record open-circuit voltages in lead-halide perovskite solar cells. Adv. Energy Mater. 10, 1902573 (2020). 146. Yuan, Y., Yan, G. H., Hong, R. J., Liang, Z. C. & Kirchartz, T. Quantifying efficiency limitations in all-inorganic halide perovskite solar cells. Adv. Mater. 34, 2108132 (2022). 147. Duparc, O. H. Pierre AugerLise Meitner: comparative contributions to the Auger effect. Int. J. Mater. Res. 100, 11621166 (2009). 148. Sietmann, R. False attribution. Phys. Bull. 39, 316 (1988). 149. Yablonovitch, E. & Cody, G. D. Intensity enhancement in textured optical sheets for solar cells. IEEE Trans. Electron. Dev. 29, 300305 (1982). 150. Brendel, R. & Queisser, H. J. On the thickness dependence of open-circuit voltages of p-n-junction solar cells. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. C 29, 397401 (1993). 151. Marti, A. & Araujo, G. L. Limiting efficiencies for photovoltaic energy conversion in multigap systems. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. C 43, 203222 (1996). 152. Marx, W. The ShockleyQueisser paper  a notable example of a scientific Sleeping Beauty. Ann. Phys. 526, A41A45 (2014). 153. Ehrler, B., Hutter, E. M. & Berry, J. J. The complicated morality of named inventions. ACS Energy Lett. 6, 565567 (2021). 154. Simmons, J. G. & Taylor, G. W. Nonequilibrium steady-state statistics and associated effects for insulators and semiconductors containing an arbitraty distribution of traps. Phys. Rev. B 4, 502511 (1971). 155. Sah, C. T. & Shockley, W. Electronhole recombination statistics in semiconductors through flaws with many charge conditions. Phys. Rev. 109, 11031115 (1958). Acknowledgements P.K.N. and B.K.P. acknowledge support from the Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), India, under project RTI 4007. P.K.N. also acknowledges support from the Department of Science and Technology (DST), India, via the Swarna Jayanti Fellowship and Challenge Awards 2021 (project Advancement towards Stable and Highly Efficient Solar cell based on Halide perovskite (ASHESH)). T.K., G.Y. and Y.Y. acknowledge funding by the Helmholtz Association Nature Reviews Materials | Volume 10 | May 2025 | 335354 354 Review article via the Programme Oriented Funding (POF) IV funding, via the project Beschleunigter Transfer der nächsten Generation von Solarzellen in die Massenfertigung  Zukunftstechnologie TandemSolarzellen, via the project SolarTap, via the Helmholtz.AI project AI-driven Instantaneous Solar cell Property Analysis (AISPA), as well as by the DFG (the German Research Foundation) via the project Correlating defect densities with recombination losses in halide-perovskite solar cells. D.C. thanks the Weizmann Institutes IES (Institute for Environmental Sustainability, formerly SAERI) and the Minerva Center for Self Repairing Systems for Energy and Sustainability for support. Author contributions All authors researched data for the article. D.C., T.K. and P.K.N. contributed substantially to discussion of the content. D.C., T.K. and P.K.N. wrote the article. All authors reviewed and/or edited the manuscript before submission. Competing interests The authors declare no competing interests. Additional information Peer review information Nature Reviews Materials thanks Martin Green and the other, anonymous, reviewer(s) for their contribution to the peer review of this work. Publishers note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law. Related links Commercial module data for CdTe: https://www.firstsolar.com/en-Emea/Products/Series-7 Commercial module data for CIGS: https://miasole.com/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/ MiaSole_brochure_final_2022.pdf Commercial module data for c-Si: https://aikosolar.com/en/aiko-delivers-industry-leading- solar-modules/ Commercial module data for HaP: https://www.renshinesolar.com/ Commercial module data for triple-junction OPV: https://www.heliatek.com/en/products/ heliasol/ Commercial OPV-based tandems: https://www.printedelectronicsnow.com/contents/ view_breaking-news/2016-02-08/heliatek-sets-new-opv-world-record-efficiency-of-132/ Installation capacity of PV as of early 2025: https://www.woodmac.com/news/opinion/ solar-2025-outlook/ Module costs as a proportion of PV system costs: https://www.nrel.gov/solar/market- research-analysis/solar-installed-system-cost.html Percentage of c-Si modules on the market: https://www.ise.fraunhofer.de/en/publications/ studies/photovoltaics-report.html Solar cells developed from float-zone silicon: https://www.energieforschung.de/en/home/ project-insights/2019/efficient-solar-cells-developed-from-float-zone-silicon TOPCon design as the expected successor of the PERC cell: https://www.vdma.org/ international-technology-roadmap-photovoltaic US National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) record efficiencies of cells: https://www.nrel.gov/pv/cell-efficiency.html US National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) record efficiencies of modules: https://www.nrel.gov/pv/module-efficiency.html  Springer Nature Limited 2025