Green Energy and Technology Takashi Kita Yukihiro Harada Shigeo Asahi Energy Conversion Efficiency of Solar Cells Green Energy and Technology Climate change, environmental impact and the limited natural resources urge scientiﬁc research and novel technical solutions. The monograph series Green Energy and Technology serves as a publishing platform for scientiﬁc and technological approaches to greeni.e. environmentally friendly and sustain- abletechnologies. While a focus lies on energy and power supply, it also covers green solutions in industrial engineering and engineering design. Green Energy and Technology addresses researchers, advanced students, technical consultants as well as decision makers in industries and politics. Hence, the level of presentation spans from instructional to highly technical. **Indexed in Scopus**. More information about this series at http://www.springer.com/series/8059 Takashi Kita  Yukihiro Harada  Shigeo Asahi Energy Conversion Efﬁciency of Solar Cells 123 Takashi Kita Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering Kobe University Kobe, Hyogo, Japan Yukihiro Harada Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering Kobe University Kobe, Hyogo, Japan Shigeo Asahi Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering Kobe University Kobe, Hyogo, Japan ISSN 1865-3529 ISSN 1865-3537 (electronic) Green Energy and Technology ISBN 978-981-13-9088-3 ISBN 978-981-13-9089-0 (eBook) https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-9089-0 Translation from the Japanese language edition: Taiyou Denchi No Enerugii Henkan Kouritsu by Takashi Kita,  Takashi Kita 2012. Published by CORONA PUBLISHING CO., LTD. All Rights Reserved.  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2019 This work is subject to copyright. All rights are reserved by the Publisher, whether the whole or part of the material is concerned, speciﬁcally the rights of translation, reprinting, reuse of illustrations, recitation, broadcasting, reproduction on microﬁlms or in any other physical way, and transmission or information storage and retrieval, electronic adaptation, computer software, or by similar or dissimilar methodology now known or hereafter developed. The use of general descriptive names, registered names, trademarks, service marks, etc. in this publication does not imply, even in the absence of a speciﬁc statement, that such names are exempt from the relevant protective laws and regulations and therefore free for general use. The publisher, the authors and the editors are safe to assume that the advice and information in this book are believed to be true and accurate at the date of publication. Neither the publisher nor the authors or the editors give a warranty, expressed or implied, with respect to the material contained herein or for any errors or omissions that may have been made. The publisher remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional afﬁliations. This Springer imprint is published by the registered company Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. The registered company address is: 152 Beach Road, #21-01/04 Gateway East, Singapore 189721, Singapore Preface The many vibrant facets of our daily life are sustained by an enormous energy consumption, although this might not be recognizable at ﬁrst glance. This conve- nient society where everything that is desired can be obtained anytime and any- where uses huge amount of energy in order to enable the underlying necessary rapid transport of an overwhelming amount of goods and high-speed transportation of people. Many things are controlled by convenient and easy-to-handle high-spec devices, which have so widely spread that they vanished from our minds, and proceed to work day by day while consuming energy. The degree of this energy consumption is exploding and almost keeps pace with the gross domestic product (GDP). It has been predicted that by the year 2030, the demand of electric power will correspond an amount that is 1.5 times larger than the present consumption, and we are all aware that what is supporting the present consumption are the nuclear power plants. With regard to Japan, which uses nuclear power peacefully, the nuclear power generation is an exceptional business, and it was actually the driving force of the economic growth after war. Because the nuclear power generation is a technique that emits no CO2, it has been in the focus of public attention as a clean energy that uses no fossil resources such as oil and coal and thus has constituted a business that involved the whole nation. The development and widespread implementation of a new and clean energy source that serves as a substitute for fossil resources are essential for the realization of a sustainable low-carbon society. However, the idea to solely rely on nuclear power in this matter is questioned frequently these days. The anticipated solution to overcome this issue is the renewable energy. In addition to sunlight, wind power, and hydropower, the recently popular biofuels or also geothermal energy is the so-called renewable energy resources, i.e., energy resources that will renew after use and never exhaust. In that sense, renewable energy may be also called energy that is usually left untouched. Among the amounts of energy per second provided by each of these energy resources, that is, 42  1012 kcal/s for sunlight, 88  109 kcal/s for wind power, and 0.5  109 kcal/s for hydropower, the amount of solar energy is by far the largest. The energy scale of the sunlight may be easier to grasp with the following data; the solar energy v that reaches the Earths ground surface is about 1 kW per square meter. This is equivalent to the statement that the amount of solar energy reaching the Earth within 1 hour is sufﬁcient to cope with the annual energy demand of the whole world. Even if solar cells are installed on only 1% of the Earths total surface, the electrical power required throughout the world can be generated. Moreover, this can be achieved by simply using energy that has been neglected so far. Can there be any more attractive solution to our energy problem? Furthermore, from the viewpoint of a device, the following feature of the solar cell outstanding; it contains no moving parts like those in a motor. When we get to the heart of the nuclear power generation, the thermal power generation, and also the wind power generation, they all generate power by rotating the shaft of a motor. In a solar cell, nothing moves besides the electrons in the semiconductor. Therefore, electricity can be generated without any noise. Additionally, by employing solar cells we can migrate from a large-scale centralized power generation to a small-scale distributed power gener- ation. Owing to this, the portfolio of the energy network is easier to assemble. The price per unit of electricity (e.g., dollars per kilowatt hour) generated by a solar cell depends on the energy conversion efﬁciency of the solar cell, and the realization of high conversion efﬁciencies is a mission assigned to research insti- tutes like our University. However, with respect to the realization of high conversion efﬁciencies, there exists one large hurdle: the theoretical limit for the energy conversion efﬁciency of a solar cell consisting of a single pn junction, a so-called single-junction solar cell, which cannot exceed efﬁciencies of  30%. Except for the small fraction of multi-junction solar cells designed for space applications, almost all commercially available solar cells are single junctions and therefore are subjected to this limit. Because William Shockley and Hans-Joachim Queisser presented the proof of the conversion efﬁciency limit with the calculation in their work Detailed Balance Limit of Efﬁciency of p-n Junction Solar Cells, Journal of Applied Physics Volume 32, Number 3, Pages 510519 (1961), this limit is called ShockleyQueisser limit (hereafter referred to as the SQ limit). If somebody is going to start with the study of solar cells, he or she usually gets hold of many textbooks that have already been published. It is regrettable that all these textbooks provide only the ﬁnal calculation result of the energy conversion efﬁciency, while the details of this concise and elegant work by Shockley and Queisser which is proving the solar cell limit are not elaborated. This is a result of the straightforward conclusion that the original work should be consulted directly. The various authors of these textbooks are certainly not to blame for omitting recapitulation since the original work is written well, making a repeating explanation unnecessary for most readers. When our laboratory began with the research on solar cells, we ﬁrst concentrated on studying the original work by Shockley and Queisser. Frankly speaking, the impression we had was that the understanding of the process ﬂow in their theoretical considerations exceeds by far that which can be gained through simply applying their ﬁnal equation regarding the operating point for maximum output power. With this book, we would like to make these deeper insights more accessible to those who are interested in deepening their understanding of solar cell efﬁciencies. We focus on the energy conversion vi Preface efﬁciency only and avoid covering widely extended contents as this is done in many other textbooks. First, we are going to determine the conversion efﬁciency of a solar cell satisfying the detailed balance condition (i.e., the constraint for thermal equi- librium with the surrounding implying radiation from the solar cell itself) and show how to discriminate between the factors that cause a limitation of the energy conversion efﬁciency and those that do not restrict the upper limit. Then, we discuss step by step the theoretical conversion efﬁciency limits of several types of solar cells. Additionally, in the ﬁnal Chap. 8, we explain the fundamentals of semicon- ductors. Since Chap. 8 is a summary of lecture notes for the lecture Semiconductor Physics and Electronics held for undergraduate students in the third year, the contents are rather basic but clearly emphasize the concepts that are important for semiconductors. We tried to explain the SQ limit without relying too much on knowledge about semiconductors, but as clariﬁed in Chap. 7, the ideal conditions have their own limited validity due to the characteristics of the semiconductor. To realize high conversion efﬁciencies, it is necessary to remove various restrictions by using either new materials or new solar cell designs. Therefore, the knowledge about the semiconductor fundamentals is essential, and the explanations in Chap. 8 cover also the pn junction which is required for the solar cell. Yet, even if Chap. 8 is skipped, this does not prevent the understanding of the chapters of the ﬁrst half of this book. This book thoroughly discusses the physics of the solar cell conversion efﬁciency and is unique in that respect that the results from frontier research are incorporated as well. The additional chapter on the semiconductor fundamentals aims at supporting those readers who want to proceed to the next step, that is, device physics. By arranging the insights gained by the students of this laboratory and making them accessible to people all over the world, we hope that we can assist the reader a little bit. It would be my utmost pleasure if this book can support not only scientists that are involved in solar cell research and development, but also those many young persons that would like to start studying solar cells. I would like to thank Prof. Yoshitaka Okada, Prof. Masakazu Sugiyama, and Prof. Nicholas J. Ekins-Daukes for the fruitful discussions and frequent helpful comments during our investigations, both being indispensable for the successful publication of this book. Further, I would like to thank our laboratorys students for the hours of intense discussions on the solar cell conversion efﬁciency, in particular Masanori Kawada, Akihiro Takahashi, Aiko Hasegawa, Ryuichi Hasegawa, Yusuke Bessho, Masuki Yamamoto, Naofumi Kasamatsu, Tomoyuki Kada, and Daiki Watanabe. Finally, I would like to express my gratitude to Prof. Hans-Joachim Queisser for his inspiring guidance during my stay at the Max Planck Institute (Stuttgart, Germany) many years ago. Kobe, Japan Takashi Kita March 2019 Preface vii Contents 1 The Solar Cell and the Electrochemical Cell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 1.1 Principle of Electricity Generation in an Electrochemical Cell . . . 2 1.2 Principle of Electricity Generation in a Solar Cell. . . . . . . . . . . . 7 1.3 Comparison Between Electrochemical Cell and Solar Cell . . . . . 12 2 Photons from the Sun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 2.1 The Wavelength of Light and Its Energy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 2.2 The Wavelengths of Sunlight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 2.3 Black-Body Radiation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 2.4 Deﬁnition of the Solid Angle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 2.5 The Photon Flux from a Black Body . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 3 Graphical Solution for the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency in the Completely Ideal Case . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 3.1 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 3.2 The Semiconductor Band Gap . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 3.3 Transmission and Thermalization Losses Caused by the Band Gap . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 3.4 Deﬁnition of the Ideal Solar Cell Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 3.5 The Three-Dimensional Visualization of the Solar Cells Output Power . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 3.6 The Derivation of the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency Curve for the Completely Ideal Case . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 4 Inﬂuences of Carrier Generation and Recombination on the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 4.1 The Solar Cells Energy Input . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 4.2 The Relation Between Electrical Current and Voltage . . . . . . . . . 47 4.3 Short-Circuit Current and Open-Circuit Voltage . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51 ix 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined by the Detailed Balance Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 5.1 The Nominal Efﬁciency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 5.2 The Detailed Balance Limit of the Conversion Efﬁciency . . . . . . 58 5.3 Losses in Solar Cells . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67 Reference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81 6.1 Single-Junction Solar Cell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83 6.2 Concentrator Solar Cell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88 6.3 Multi-junction Solar Cell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92 6.4 Intermediate-Band Solar Cell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98 6.5 Two-Step Photon Up-Conversion Solar Cell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105 6.6 Solar Cells with Spectral Converters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 114 6.7 Inﬂuence of the Weather . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 118 6.8 Inﬂuence of the Temperature . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 128 6.9 Indoor Photovoltaic Cell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 133 References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 136 7 Application Limits for the Ideal Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139 7.1 Consideration of the Absorption Coefﬁcient . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140 7.2 The Minority Carrier Diffusion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 144 7.3 Photocurrent Densities Calculated for Different Materials Under Consideration of the Layer Thickness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 150 References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 156 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 157 8.1 The Semiconductor Band Gap . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 158 8.2 The Intrinsic Semiconductor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 162 8.3 The Extrinsic Semiconductor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 164 8.4 Energy Levels of Impurities and Carrier Generation . . . . . . . . . . 166 8.5 The Carrier Distribution Within a Band . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 172 8.6 The Fermi Level . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 176 8.7 Temperature Dependence of the Carrier Density . . . . . . . . . . . . . 178 8.8 The Currents in a Semiconductor: Drift Current and Diffusion Current . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181 8.9 The Quasi-Fermi Level . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 187 8.10 The pn Junction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 190 8.11 CurrentVoltage Characteristics of a pn Junction . . . . . . . . . . . 196 x Contents Symbols g m; T ð Þ Light energy per unit frequency and unit volume due to black-body radiation (Plancks black-body radiation) G m; T ð Þ The photon ﬂux per unit frequency that is incident from the unit solid angle on the unit area u mg; Ts   Conversion efﬁciency of a solar cell in the completely ideal case Ts Temperature of the Sun EC Energy of the conduction band minimum EV Energy of the valence band maximum Eg Band-gap energy of the semiconductor (Eg ¼ hmg) Ephoton Photon energy Pin Power of the Sun that is incident from the unit solid angle on the unit area x Solid angle of the Sun as seen from the Earth Fs Rate of electronhole pair generation by the radiation from the Sun Pflux mg; Ts   The photon ﬂux contained in the black-body radiation from the Sun that can be absorbed by a thick semiconductor per unit area fx Geometrical factor of the solid angle Tc Solar cell temperature Fc0 Rate of electronhole pair generation due to the ﬁnite solar cell temperature Tc Fc V ð Þ Radiative recombination rate R V ð Þ Non-radiative recombination rate fc Ratio of rate of radiative electronhole pair generation to the rate of electronhole pair generation by both radiative and non-radiative processes Ish Short-circuit current of the solar cell Vop Open-circuit voltage of the solar cell f fcfx=2 I0 Maximum current of a solar cell without light illumination xi m xg; xc; f   Ratio of the open-circuit voltage Vop to the output voltage Vg of the completely ideal solar cell gnom Nominal efﬁciency Pinc Power of the sunlight incident on the solar cell per unit area, which accounts for the solid angle (Pinc ¼ fxPin) Vmax Voltage under the condition for maximum output power I (Vmax) Current under the condition for maximum output power FF Fill factor N k ð Þ Photon ﬂux spectrum based on the air mass data P0 flux mg; Ts   The photon ﬂux contained in the black-body radiation spectrum of the Sun that can be absorbed by a thick semiconductor per unit area in case of concentration of sunlight X Concentration ratio. The maximum concentration factor is Xmax = 45,900 a Absorptivity: fraction of the incident radiation absorbed by the solar cell xii Symbols Chapter 1 The Solar Cell and the Electrochemical Cell Abstract We derive the conversion efﬁciencies of solar cells under various condi- tions in the chapters following Chap. 3. For our discussions on the solar cell conver- sion efﬁciency, it is extremely important to ﬁrst understand the principle of electricity generation in a solar cell. In contrast to the electrochemical cell, which is usually introduced in high-school grade chemistry, the opportunities to study the operation principle of solar cells are almost zero except for some specialized schools. Most solar cells consist of a semiconductor pn junction, which is a connection between a semiconductor n-layer with many electrons and a semiconductor p-layer containing plenty of holes in the semiconductor crystal. Even if high-school lectures on solar cells could be established, we have in mind that the explanation of how the electricity generation exactly works in such solar cells often will have to be skipped and summa- rized as knowledge belonging to the category of semiconductor engineering. On hearing the rather famous word semiconductor, one may think of realms of science completely different from the electrochemical cell. Since there are too many things that have to be learned regarding semiconductor materials, many of those who try studying the operation principle of solar cells may have difﬁculties to immediately grasp all essential relations. In this chapter, we explain how the solar cell converts the energy supplied by the Sun into electrical energy. For this, we employ the exam- ple of the well-known electrochemical cell, in particular, the voltaic pile which was most likely studied ﬁrst in high school, and compare it with the solar cell from the viewpoint of the redox reactions. In order to easily grasp the idea of how cur- rent ﬂows, the explanations especially emphasize the electron movement that occurs inside the solar cell. After explanation of the operation principle of the voltaic pile on a high-school chemistry level in Sect. 1.1, we explain the principle of electricity generation in a solar cell while outlining the parallels to the electrochemical cell. Finally, we clarify the unique qualities of the solar cell by discussing the similarities and differences between these types of cells, i.e., the electrochemical cell and the solar cell. Keywords Solar cell  Electrochemical cell  Power generation  pn junction  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2019 T. Kita et al., Energy Conversion Efﬁciency of Solar Cells, Green Energy and Technology, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-9089-0_1 1 2 1 The Solar Cell and the Electrochemical Cell Fig. 1.1 Sketch of the voltaic pile 1.1 Principle of Electricity Generation in an Electrochemical Cell The voltaic pile is representative for electrochemical cells. Since its explanation in this section is a recapitulation of that what is learned in high-school chemistry, the reader who feels conﬁdent about his/her high-school knowledge may skip this section. We shall start with the sketch of the voltaic pile, which is drawn in Fig. 1.1. Here, a zinc (Zn) plate and a copper (Cu) plate are immersed in the aqueous solution of the sulfuric acid (H2SO4) that is contained in a beaker. It is a construction where the two plates and the load (e.g., a bulb) are connected with conducting wires. Let us analyze step by step what kind of chemical reaction occurs when we prepare such a battery. First, we take some distance from the battery concept and consider the condition with disconnected wires. What type of reaction will occur when the metal plates stay immersed in the aqueous sulfuric solution? In order to analyze the reaction between a metal and the sulfuric aqueous solution, we provide a brief explanation of the ionization of metals. If a metal atom ejects an electron with a negative charge, it becomes a cation. This phenomenon is called ionization, and the reaction Zn Zn2+ + 2eis an example for the ionization of Zn. The barrier for ionization differs for every material, and the series of elements in ascending order of their ionization barriers as shown in Fig. 1.2 is called ionization 1.1 Principle of Electricity Generation in an Electrochemical Cell 3 tendency. By looking at the ionization tendency in Fig. 1.2, some readers might remember the mnemonic Kangaroo Can Make A Zoo In The Low Humid Country More Satisfactorily (Gold) from their high-school time. The ionization tendency in Fig. 1.2 expresses that electrons are more easily ejected by elements that are located more to the left. The metal with the easiest electron ejection in Fig. 1.2 is potassium (K). The metals that belong to the ﬁrst group of the periodic table of elements like potassium and natrium can easily ionize by electron ejection. In nature, elements like potassium and natrium almost never exist as pure metals. Instead, they exist as salts; i.e., they are in an ionized condition and connected with other elements like chlorine ions. On the other hand, the most right-hand side element in Fig. 1.2, which corresponds to the element with the largest barrier for electron ejection, is gold (Au). As gold is known for not rusting as well as being a chemically stable metal, we can imagine that it hardly ejects electrons and thus does not easily react with other elements. The reversed ionization tendency, which is shown below the ionization ten- dency, expresses the capability of an ionized element to receive an electron; i.e., an element can more easily receive an electron if it is located more to the right. For example, in case that two hydrogen ions (2H+) receive two electrons, the reaction 2H+ + 2eH2 takes place and the hydrogen ions form the hydrogen molecule (H2). In order to consider the reaction between the metal plates and the sulfuric acid, we systematically investigate the important elements appearing in Fig. 1.1. As indicated, the metal plates are made of zinc (Zn) and copper (Cu). Through hydration of the sulfuric acid (H2SO4), large amounts of sulfate ions (SO2 4 ) and hydrogen ions (H+) exist in the aqueous solution. Further, a small amount of hydroxide ions (OH) is present in the aqueous solution due to the self-ionization of water. Since SO2 4 and OHare not important for the present explanation, we omit them below. Fig. 1.2 Ionization tendency and its reverse 4 1 The Solar Cell and the Electrochemical Cell Within these elements, Zn and H+ form the pair of elements that results in a reaction. As can be conﬁrmed from the ionization tendency in Fig. 1.2, Zn ejects electrons easier than the hydrogen molecule H2, and the hydrogen ion H+ receives electrons easier than the zinc ion Zn2+. In such a situation, the following reaction occurs: Zn provides an electron to H+. The reaction in which a material transfers an electron to another material is called oxidation reaction. The Zn in Fig. 1.3 undergoes oxidation, because Zn was ionized by ejecting electrons. Next, let us focus on the H+. The H+ ions received the electrons from Zn and formed the hydrogen molecule H2. Such a reaction where a certain material receives an electron from another material is called reduction reaction. Therefore, we say that the H+ in Fig. 1.3 undergoes reduction. The oxidation (reaction in which an electron is given away) and the reduction (reaction in which an electron is received) are reactions that must occur simultane- ously, and thus the combined process is also called redox reaction. The reaction between Zn and H+ can be interpreted as the redox reaction between Zn and H2SO4, because H2SO4 is the source of the hydrogen ion H+. Accordingly, the abovemen- tioned reaction can be represented as the following reaction formula: Zn + H2SO4 ZnSO4 + H2 (1.1) Now, we shall consider the situation after the redox reaction, that is, after a small amount of Zn2+ has been extracted from the Zn plate into the aqueous solution. There still exist many H+ in the aqueous solution that have not undergone any reaction, as well as many zinc metal atoms that still have not been ionized. Consequently, we still have a condition with high potential for further redox reactions. However, there Fig. 1.3 Redox reaction between Zn and H+ 1.1 Principle of Electricity Generation in an Electrochemical Cell 5 exist many solved Zn2+ around the zinc plate. Since the Coulomb repulsion between the cations is signiﬁcant, the hydrogen ions H+ in the aqueous solution can hardly approach the zinc plate as shown in Fig. 1.4. Furthermore, the bubbles of H2 gas molecules that formed on the zinc plate due to the redox reaction as shown in Fig. 1.3 stick to the zinc plate. If only this zinc plate would be immersed in the aqueous sulfuric acid, the reaction speed slows down as the redox reaction proceeds because the H+ ions have difﬁculties to approach the zinc plate. To ﬁnd a solution to this issue, consider the situation in Fig. 1.1. Here, the zinc plate is connected with a conducting wire that passes through the load and connects it with the copper plate. We assume that the free electrons of the metal can unrestrictedly move within the metal plates as well as within the wire. In other words, compared to the extraction of an electron from a Zn atom on the zinc plate, it is easier (energetically more proﬁtable) for the H+ to receive an electron without delay from the copper plate, which has only a small number of cations in its vicinity (see Fig. 1.5). As a result, the Zn2+ goes into the aqueous solution by oxidation of the zinc metal atom via electron ejection in the same manner as in Fig. 1.3, but the electron that was ejected from the Zn is not transferred to the H+ on the zinc plate. Instead, the electron ﬂows into the copper plate via the wire that is connected to the zinc plate. Then, the electron is transferred to the H+ on the copper plate and causes the reduction of H+, which subsequently results in H2 (see Fig. 1.6). By enabling oxidation and reduction reactions at separate places in such a way, an electron movement can be intentionally induced. The apparatus that extracts the movement of the electron as energy by connecting a load through which the electrons pass is called electrochemical cell. Fig. 1.4 Coulomb repulsion between Zn2+ and H+ 6 1 The Solar Cell and the Electrochemical Cell Fig. 1.5 After some zinc ions have been solved in the aqueous sulfuric acid, the hydrogen ions can more easily obtain electrons from the copper plate Fig. 1.6 Reduction of H+ on the surface of the copper plate (principle of electricity generation in the voltaic pile) Regarding the electrical contacts of a battery, we distinguish between the nega- tive electrode, which is the contact where the electrons ﬂow out, and the positive electrode where the electrons ﬂow into the battery. Imagine a dry battery as shown in Fig. 1.7. The technical current is directed from the positive electrode of the dry battery to the negative electrode. Since the direction of the current is opposite to that of the electron ﬂow, the electrons move from the negative electrode of the dry battery toward the positive electrode. In case of the voltaic pile, the negative electrode is the zinc plate, which is the contact where the oxidation reaction occurs and electrons ﬂow out. The positive electrode is the copper plate since this is the contact where the electrons ﬂow in and the reduction reaction occurs. 1.2 Principle of Electricity Generation in a Solar Cell 7 Fig. 1.7 Identiﬁcation of the positive and negative electrodes of a battery 1.2 Principle of Electricity Generation in a Solar Cell In the previous section, we brieﬂy explained the redox reaction and the operating prin- ciple of the voltaic pile. In the present section, we consider the solar cells principle of electricity generation from the viewpoint of the redox reaction. For the explanations in this section, we choose the model of the monocrystalline pn junction solar cell, which is representative of solar cells. We provide a schematic of the pn junction solar cell structure in Fig. 1.8. Both the p-layer and the n-layer sides are connected with a material that serves as an electrical contact, and we assume that the electrons can be transferred without loss between this material and the semiconductor material (this connection is called Ohmic contact). Negatively charged acceptor ions exist within the p-layer together with holes that are induced by ionization of the acceptor atoms. Acceptors are charged by receiving electrons from the surrounding semiconductor host crystal. The n-layer contains positively charged donor ions, which are charged by ejecting electrons in order to form covalent bonds with the surrounding semiconductor host crystal, and the excess electrons ejected from the donors. In the vicinity of the pn junction interface at the center, the holes induced by the acceptors and the excess electrons induced by the donors will recombine and thus annihilate each other. Hence, a depletion region without holes and excess electrons extends around the junction interface. When we focus on the region outside the depletion region, we ﬁnd that the charge neutralityinthep-layerismaintainedbecausethenumberofacceptorionsandholesis equal. Similarly, the charge neutrality in the n-layer is maintained because the number of donor ions and excess electrons is equal. Since charge neutrality is established while being unpolarized, the two regions to the left and right of the depletion layer are sometimes also called neutral regions. On the other hand, although the charge neutrality is maintained in the depletion region as a whole (due to the same number of acceptor ions and donor ions), there exists a strong internal electric ﬁeld inside the depletion region. This is because the donors and acceptors are located in the p- and n-layers, respectively. 8 1 The Solar Cell and the Electrochemical Cell Fig. 1.8 Schematic of the pn junction solar cell structure The excess electrons can move without any restrictions inside the unpolarized semiconductorvolume,theelectricalcontactwithOhmicbehavior,andalsoinsidethe conducting wire. However, since the holes are actually missing valence electrons and formed within the covalent bonds of the semiconductor host crystal, they can only exist in the semiconductors covalent bonds. In other words, the holes cannot travel through the metallic parts and stay inside the semiconductor material. This situation can easily be imagined if we relate it with the hydrogen ions explained in the previous section about the voltaic pile. While the electrons were able to move freely inside the metal plates and the wire, the H+ cations could only exist in the aqueous solution. The holes and excess electrons in the p- and n-layers shown in Fig. 1.8 are carriers that originate from acceptors and donors, respectively, which are impurities used for doping. Besides the carrier generation that results from impurities, the carrier generation employing the energy of light (this is also called photoexcitation of carriers) is extremely important for the solar cells principle of electricity generation. In Fig. 1.9, we depict the process that occurs if light with sufﬁciently high energy illuminates a semiconductor atom. The criterion to decide what energy of light is sufﬁciently high is explained in detail in Chap. 3. For the sake of simplicity, only one atom is clearly depicted in Fig. 1.9, but we assume that this atom forms covalent bonds with other semiconductor atoms in its vicinity (shown as gray atoms in the top panel). Without loss of generality, the reader may consider it as a silicon (Si) atom, a typical semiconductor. The eight 1.2 Principle of Electricity Generation in a Solar Cell 9 Fig. 1.9 Photoexcitation of a carrier in case of light being incident on a semiconductor atom (e.g., Si) electrons that circulate around the atom depict the electrons that contribute to the covalent bonds. In case that light with sufﬁciently high energy is incident on the semiconductor atom, an electron from the covalent bond is ejected due to the energy of the light and becomes a free electron. The phenomenon of an electron becoming a free electron in a semiconductor in such a way, i.e., to be ejected from the covalent bond by receiving energy from external light, is called photoexcitation of the electron. The missing valence electron that is formed in the covalent bond upon generating the photoexcited electron is treated as a hole with a positive charge. Let us represent the abovementioned photoexcitation of carriers with a chemical reaction formula. In case that the semiconductor atom is silicon (Si), the chemical reaction formula of the photoexcitation can be written as shown in Eq. (1.2). Si Si+ + e - (1.2) Now, if we apply the concept of the redox reaction to Si, the photoexcitation of the electron can also be considered as a type of oxidation, because Si was ionized (Si+) by ejecting an electron. Figure 1.10 shows the situation inside the solar cell after the electron and the hole were generated by incident light. According to quantum mechanics, it can be considered that particles like electrons have no individual character. Therefore, we cannot distinguish between electrons and holes that are generated by photoexcitation and those generated via doping with impurities. In other words, this means that there is no essential difference between the hole that exists in the p-layer due to the impurity and the hole generated by photoexcitation in the area indicated with the red dotted ellipse in the neutral region of Fig. 1.10. We now proceed explaining the principle of the electricity generation in a solar cell while focusing on the movement of the electron after its generation in the 10 1 The Solar Cell and the Electrochemical Cell Fig. 1.10 Condition inside the solar cell after generation of an electronhole pair in the p-layer by photoexcitation p-layer shown in Fig. 1.10. In Fig. 1.11, we depict the condition that establishes inside the solar cell during illumination with light. With the itemized explanation below, we clarify the chronological sequence of the electron movement. The item numbers correspond to the numbers provided in Fig. 1.11. We suggest to conﬁrm the corresponding electron movement in Fig. 1.11 while reading the itemized explana- tion.  The photoexcited excess electron diffuses inside the neutral region of the p-layer without being inﬂuenced by electrical forces.  If the excess electron collides with a hole during the diffusion movement in the p- layer, the electron recombines with the hole and is annihilated; that is, the electron stops beinganexcess electronandagainbecomes avalenceelectron. This increases the solar cells temperature (see Sect. 6.7).  If the electron does not collide with any hole in the neutral region of the p-layer, it can reach the depletion region as a result of random movement. As stated above, an internal electric ﬁeld exists in the depletion region, which is induced by the asymmetric distribution of acceptor and donor ions. Since the electron is a nega- tively charged particle, it is repelled by the acceptor ions and attracted by donor ions. The electron is immediately accelerated by the internal electric ﬁeld upon reaching the depletion region and swept into the n-layer side.  In case that the electron reaches the n-layer, the electron density inside the n- layer becomes larger than that before light illumination. It is known that when the density of a particle becomes higher, the particle tries to diffuse toward a location 1.2 Principle of Electricity Generation in a Solar Cell 11 Fig. 1.11 Electron movement inside the solar cell during electricity generation with a lower density. In the present case of the n-layer, the electron can hardly diffuse toward the pn junction (i.e., the region around the interface between n- and p-layers), because the electron is pushed back by the internal electric ﬁeld in the depletion layer if it tries to move to that side. On the other hand, in case of diffusion toward the side of the electrical contact attached to the n-layer, there is no electric ﬁeld or other factors that would impede the electron movement. As a result, the electron diffuses from the n-layer into the electrode.  The electron, which was driven by diffusion, reaches the side of the p-layer by traveling through the conducting wire and passing the electrical load.  The electron that entered the p-layer recombines after collision with a hole. When we represent the recombination between electron and hole with a reaction formula for the semiconductor atom Si, as we have done with the photoexcitation of the electron in Eq. (1.2), we obtain Eq. (1.3). Si+ + e - Si (1.3) When we focus on Si, the recombination of the electron with the hole is a reaction where Si+, which contains the hole, receives the electron that came from the wire and thus becomes an uncharged Si atom. Therefore, we can treat this recombination as a reduction reaction of Si+. 12 1 The Solar Cell and the Electrochemical Cell The mechanisms explained above constitute the principle of electricity generation in a solar cell. The logic for the plus/minus assignment of the electrodes of a solar cell is exactly the same as that for the electrochemical cell; that is, the electrical contact on the n-layer side where the electrons ﬂow out is the negative electrode, and the contact of the p-layer where the electrons enter the cell is the positive electrode. 1.3 Comparison Between Electrochemical Cell and Solar Cell In Sect. 1.1, we recapitulated the electrochemical cell, and in Sect. 1.2 we provided an explanation about the solar cell with aid of the redox reaction concept. When we analyze the reactions that occur in a solar cell during electricity generation by employing the concept of the redox reaction in the voltaic pile, it will become clear that there exist many parallels. In the voltaic pile, the location where the oxidation reaction occurs is on the zinc plate, and that of the reduction reaction is on the copper plate. The reader should bear in mind that the important point here is the spatial separation of oxidation and reduction and that the reduction occurs after the electron passed the wire. In case of the solar cell, the location of the photoexcitation of electron and hole (corresponding to the oxidation reaction) is the location where light with sufﬁciently high energy strikes the semiconductor atom. The place where the electron recom- bines with the hole (corresponding to the reduction reaction) is inside the p-layer near the electrode. Moreover, regarding the recombination between electron and hole, there are two possible patterns which are the recombination of the electron before it reaches the depletion region (see Fig. 1.11; ➁) and the recombination after the electron passed the wire and entered the p-layer (see Fig. 1.11; ➅). Similar to the case of the voltaic pile, only the recombination of a hole with the electron that entered the p-layer after passing the wire contributes to the extraction of energy as electrical power. We may try to imagine the recombination of the electron before it reaches the depletion region in terms of the voltaic pile. The analogy to this recombination process would be the reduction reaction of H+ on the zinc plate, which is described in Fig. 1.3. With Fig. 1.12, we provide a diagram that compares the voltaic pile and the solar cell. We note that one distinct difference between the electrochemical cell and the solar cell is that the electrochemical cell can store electric power while the solar cell cannot. Since the electrochemical cell can store ions in the aqueous solution, electric power can be retrieved any time if a load is connected to the electrodes. In contrast, the solar cannot generate electricity unless there is a light source. However, if light itself could be stored like it is possible to store electricity with the aqueous solution of the voltaic pile, then it would be possible to use the solar cell as a dry solar battery. 1.3 Comparison Between Electrochemical Cell and Solar Cell 13 Fig. 1.12 Comparison between the pn junction solar cell and the voltaic pile Chapter 2 Photons from the Sun Abstract The solar cell is a device that converts the energy of light into electrical energy. Consequently, a prerequisite for the derivation of the conversion efﬁciency of a solar cell is to understand the nature of light energy. In the present chapter, we clarify what energy is contained in light and explain the characteristics of the light that is emitted from the sun. Keywords Photon  Sunlight  Black-body radiation 2.1 The Wavelength of Light and Its Energy Light is a type of electromagnetic wave and is known to possess both a wave-like nature and also a particle-like nature. The former nature means that light moves in space while oscillating like a wave, and the latter nature concerns the particle-like behavior that appears due to quantization of the electromagnetic ﬁeld. Therefore, it can be considered as a wave and it can be also treated as a particle. When we treat the light in terms of particles, we call these particles photons. The energy of each single particle (photon) is proportional to the frequency of the photon, and the total power of some monochromatic light is proportional to the frequency of the photons and the number of photons. Equation (2.1), which is also called Einsteins quantum theory of light, describes therelationbetweenthelightfrequency,ν,andtheenergyoflight,E.Theconstantthat relates these two physical quantities is the Planck constant, h (= 4.14  1015eV s). This equation postulates that the light, which was originally considered as a wave only, is actually built up by grains called photons. Equation (2.2) is an extremely fundamental equation that describes the relation between the frequency ν of the wave (unit: Hz), the propagation speed c of the wave (unit: m/s), and the wavelength λ (unit: m). With this equation, we can calculate how many oscillations a wave performs per second by dividing the distance that the  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2019 T. Kita et al., Energy Conversion Efﬁciency of Solar Cells, Green Energy and Technology, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-9089-0_2 15 16 2 Photons from the Sun wave travels per second (i.e., the velocity) by the length of one wave cycle (i.e., the wavelength). Since the wave considered here is light, the speed of the wave equals the speed of light, c (= 3.0  108m/s in vacuum). E = hν (2.1) ν = c λ (2.2) We can directly express the relation between energy and wavelength by inserting the general equation for waves, Eq. (2.2), into Eq. (2.1) which relates the light with a particle, resulting in Eq. (2.3). The Planck constant h and the speed of light in vacuum c are constants, and their multiplication results in about 1240  109eV m. Equation (2.4) shifts the focus on the wavelength of light and its energy through substituting the term hc in Eq. (2.3) by the constant evaluated above. hc λ = E (2.3) 1240 λ (nm) = E (eV) (2.4) From Eq. (2.4), we ﬁnd that the wavelength of a photon is inversely proportional to the energy of the photon. The graph for Eq. (2.4) is shown in Fig. 2.1. The horizontal axis is the light wavelength, and the vertical axis shows the energy that is conveyed by a single photon. The common names used to assign the different wavelength regimes are also provided in Fig. 2.1. This ﬁgure visualizes that the energy of a photon is large for short light wave- lengths, and becomes smaller for longer wavelengths. As shown in Fig. 2.1, the wavelength range of the light that can be perceived by the human eye (the visible light) is about 400800 nm (n expresses the multiplication by 109 and is read as nano; 1 nm equals 109 m),1 which corresponds to about 3.11.6 eV in terms of energy. The ultraviolet rays possess energies that are higher than that of the visible light. These rays belong to the energy region above 3.1 eV, which corresponds to wave- lengths below 400 nm, and directly affect the cells of the skin, for example, they can lead to sunburns. 1The SI preﬁxes: 1021 (Zeta Z), 1015 (Peta P), 1012 (Tera T), 109 (Giga G), 106 (Mega M), 103 (kilo k), 103 (milli m), 106 (micro µ), 109 (nano n), 1012 (pico p), 1015 (femto f), 1018 (atto a), 1021 (zepto z). 2.1 The Wavelength of Light and Its Energy 17 Fig. 2.1 The relation between the wavelength of the photon and its energy. The photon energy becomes larger for shorter wavelengths Furthermore, the infrared light as well as the far-infrared light has energies below that of visible light. These wavelength regimes are frequently raised as topics for products like cooking utensils. Although pots emitting far-infrared light are being praised for advantages like enabling delicious cooking, the far-infrared light is a very common electromagnetic wave that is emitted by any material that possesses a temperature on the order of a human being. That what relates the temperature and electromagnetic waves is a phenomenon called radiation. A more detailed explana- tion of radiation is provided in Sect. 2.3, but a brief explanation would be anything that possesses temperature necessarily emits light (electromagnetic waves), and the color of the emitted light depends on the temperature. For example, if you start a charcoal ﬁre for a barbecue, the coals with low temperature emit a dark red color, but when the temperature increases, a bright white light is observed. This phenomenon is radiation. The thermal energy of room temperature (25 C) is about 26 meV, and that for the evaporation point of water (100 C) is about 32 meV. In contrast, most parts of the sunlight we are usually exposed to consist of light between 1.6 and 3.1 eV. Hence, the energy contained in sunlight is rather high compared to the thermal energy we usually deal with. Furthermore, the light with even larger energies, such as X-rays, can directly damage the genes and are therefore very harmful to living beings. 18 2 Photons from the Sun 2.2 The Wavelengths of Sunlight Because the Sun constitutes the energy source for the solar cell, it is important to understand the characteristics of solar energy. The explanation in this section concerns the photon energies and wavelengths that are contained in sunlight. If someone draws a picture of the Sun, the Suns color tends usually to be yellow or white (with some variations depending on the individual). If sunlight, which is usually perceived as white, passes through a prism as shown in Fig. 2.2, it breaks up into seven main colors, namely red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and purple (since the color changes almost continuously, a nearly inﬁnite number of different colors exists in nature like that between red and orange and further subdivisions). This means that a large number of colors, or in other words, many photons with different wavelengths, are contained in sunlight, and the combination of these colors appears white to us. Figure 2.3 shows the wavelength distribution of the photons contained in sunlight. The horizontal axis of this ﬁgure represents the wavelength of the photons contained in sunlight, and the vertical axis shows the photon ﬂux (i.e., the number of photons that pass through the unit area per unit time). The curve 1, which is shown with the dotted line, is the initial wavelength distribution of the photons directly emitted from the Sun. This curve corresponds to the black-body radiation in case of a temperature of T = 6000 K for the sun obtained from Plancks law shown in Eq. (2.5) in the next section. The shape of curve 1 reﬂects the mechanism of the emission of electromagnetic waves from a material containing heat. Curve 2 in Fig. 2.3 shows the spectrum of sunlight that reaches the Earths ground surface. The light emitted by the Sun reaches the Earth after undergoing various interactions during the propagation in space, like the absorption or scattering by interstellar matter such as hydrogen atoms. Even after the light has reached the Fig. 2.2 Schematic of sunlight that passes through a prism 2.2 The Wavelengths of Sunlight 19 Earth, it is absorbed during the propagation through the atmosphere, due to, for example, dense oxygen and water vapor. The light that ﬁnally reaches the Earths ground surface has a spectrum like shown with curve 2. Although curve 2 describes the representative solar spectrum that is observed on the Earths ground surface under a clear sky, we have to bear in mind that the sun- light reaching the Earths ground surface continuously changes due to atmospheric conditions (for example, weather phenomena like rain). As will be explained in the following Chap. 3, the solar cell conversion efﬁciency is deﬁned as the ratio of the electric output power of the solar cell to the power of the incident light. Conse- quently, in case of a solar cell that is used on the Earths ground surface, we have to divide by the solar power reaching the ground surface. However, the denominator is ever-changing since the solar power reaching the surface constantly changes by the weather. Therefore, the solar cell conversion efﬁciency changes depending on time and location even if we illuminate solar cells with the same capabilities. For actual use, this may be acceptable, but in case of solar cell development, this is prob- lematic. Because here we have to aim at improving the conversion efﬁciency of the solar cell itself, and results like todays weather was ﬁne and therefore the solar cell conversion efﬁciency improved are of no use in research and development. To solve this issue, so-called standard sunlight has been deﬁned for the purpose of measuring the solar cell conversion efﬁciency. This approach evaluates the air mass coefﬁcient (AM), which expresses the distance travelled by the sunlight through the atmosphere, and standardizes the components in the air. Thesolar spectrumoutsidetheatmosphereis assignedtoAM0(that is, thedistance travelled through the atmosphere is zero). The AM of sunlight illuminating at an angle θ with respect to the normal of the Earths surface is given by 1/cos θ. In case of vertically incident sunlight, i.e., θ = 0, we obtain AM1 since we have cos(0) = 1. Curve 2 in Fig. 2.3 describes the sunlight in case of AM1.5. This corresponds to sunlight that reached the Earths ground surface under an incident angle of about Fig. 2.3 Wavelength distribution of photons contained in sunlight. Curve 1 is the black-body radiation spectrum for a black-body temperature of 6000 K. Curve 2 is the actual AM1.5G solar spectrum 20 2 Photons from the Sun 48 with respect to the surface normal direction. AM1.5 is the typical solar spectrum that is observed in a mild climate, and is widely used as the standard spectrum to determine the conversion efﬁciency of solar cells that are used on the Earths ground surface. There are two kinds of standards for AM1.5; AM1.5D (direct) for direct ﬂux from the Sun and AM1.5G (global) taking into account the effects of light scattering. The solar cell conversion efﬁciency that is measured using incident light with a wavelength distribution according to AM1.5G and a light source with a power of 100 mW/cm2 is called nominal efﬁciency (note that this experimentally obtained nominal efﬁciency is different from the purely theoretical concept of the nominal efﬁciency introduced in Sect. 5.1). The nominal conversion efﬁciency has been deﬁned by the International Electrotechnical Commission Technical Committee 82 on Photovoltaics, IEC TC-82, and the commonly discussed solar cell efﬁciency refers to this nominal efﬁciency. 2.3 Black-Body Radiation Some readers may know from their own experience that if, for example, coal or the ﬁlament of a bulb is heated, the color changes from red to yellow to white while the temperature increases. In such a way, any material containing heat emits electro- magnetic waves (i.e., light) by itself, and this phenomenon is called electromagnetic radiation. In particular, the radiation emitted from black bodies such as coal is called black-body radiation. A black-colored material (black body) absorbs all incident light without reﬂecting it. Because the light that can be emitted from a black body contains no light that is reﬂected by the material, we can treat all photons that are observed as photons due to radiation. Consequently, it is extremely useful to investigate electromagnetic radiation by considering a black body (See Fig. 2.4). The discovery and research of radiated light began in an era when the iron and steel industry ﬂourished, after the industrial revolution which started in the eighteenth (a) General radiation (b) Black-body radiation Fig. 2.4 The reason why a black body has to be considered is that reﬂected light can be neglected, which simpliﬁes the calculation 2.3 Black-Body Radiation 21 century and lasted until the nineteenth century. The trigger was the natural question of how the temperature in a hot blast furnace could be measured. It is obvious that you cannot just simply put a thermometer in this hot viscous liquid of melted metal. The technique for measuring the temperature in the blast furnace was subsequently obtained by measuring the light emitted from the blast furnace and revealing the relationship between the materials temperature and the light wavelength. As a result of various researches, it has been revealed that Eq. (2.5) describes the relationship between the materials temperature and the light emitted by the material. g(ν, T ) = 8πh c3 ν3 exp  hν kT  1, (2.5) Equation (2.5) is called Plancks law for the electromagnetic radiation emitted by a black body. Since its introduction should be also considered as the advent of quantum mechanics, it is an extremely important relation. Here, h is the Planck constant in units of J s, c is the speed of light in units of m/s, ν is the frequency (unit Hz), k is the Boltzmann constant (unit J/K), and T expresses the temperature of the black body in K. Regarding the origin and explanation of Plancks law for black- body radiation itself, these are provided in detail in many introductory textbooks on quantum mechanics. Therefore, the present book simply utilizes the equation and the envelope that is provided in the graph for this relation. As shown in Fig. 2.4, it is considered that the black-body radiation is independent of the characteristics of the material that constitutes the black body (except for being perfectly black, which is a rather strict condition). Therefore, the black-body radiation energy distribution is a function that depends only on the frequency ν and the temperature T. In order to better grasp the physical signiﬁcance of the black-body radiation g(ν, T ), let us analyze its unit. Because the unit of the frequency, Hz, can be also expressed as 1/s, the unit of g(ν, T ) becomes [h]  [ν]3 [c]3 = J s Hz3 (m/s)3 = J m3 Hz From this, we can verify that g(ν, T ) is the energy (J) radiated from the black body per unit frequency (1/Hz) and unit volume (1/m3). Figure 2.5 shows several graphs to describe the relation between the black-body radiation spectrum and the temperature of the material. Here, we employed the tem- peratures T = 2000, 4000, and 6000 K for the black body. For increasing black-body temperatures, the intensity of the light becomes stronger while the peak position of the radiation spectrum transits to the short- wavelength side. Since the light directly emitted from the Sun closely resembles the radiation from a black body with an absolute temperature of 6000 K, the black-body radiation spectrum for 6000 K is frequently employed to approximate the incident light in solar cell simulations. The calculations for the solar cells in this book are 22 2 Photons from the Sun Fig. 2.5 The black-body radiation spectra for different temperatures of the black-body material. As the temperature of a material increases, the intensity of the radiated light increases and the peak position shifts toward shorter wavelengths also performed by approximating the incident sunlight spectrum by the black-body radiation spectrum for 6000 K. As a supplementary exercise to become familiar with the radiation phenomenon, we shall calculate the wavelength of the intensity peak position of the electromagnetic radiation emitted by our body. Our body has a temperature of about 36 C, which is 319 K in terms of the absolute temperature. We set T in Eq. (2.5) to 319 K, and then scan the frequency ν in order to ﬁnd the maximum intensity of g(ν, T ), which is the light radiated from the material. When we perform this calculation, the maximum value is found near ν = 1.9  1013 Hz. In terms of wavelength, the intensity of the electromagnetic radiation emitted from the human body with a temperature of 36 C is strongest at a wavelength of about 16 µm (=16000 nm). The electromagnetic radiation emitted from the Sun has its maximum intensity in the wavelength range of 500800 nm. The wavelength of 16 µm is classiﬁed as light from the mid-infrared range. Since the light intensity of the radiation becomes stronger for higher temperatures, the radiation emitted by the human body is far weaker than the sunlight. By employing this relation between temperature and intensity peak position, the thermographic camera measures the weak radiation emitted from materials contain- ing heat, like the human body, and then determines the temperature. With Eq. (2.5), we introduced Plancks fundamental law for electromagnetic radi- ation. However, it is obvious that not the total radiation emitted by the Sun is actu- ally striking the Earth. The detailed balance limit which appears in Chap. 4 and the following chapters requires a concept called solid angle for its calculation. The consideration of the solid angle is essential for the evaluation of the ratio between light reaching the Earth and the total electromagnetic radiation emitted by the Sun. To solve this problem, we rewrite Plancks law for the black-body radiation in a way to include also a photon ﬂux that accounts for the solid angle. First, we deﬁne and explain the meaning of the solid angle in the next section. In the last part of this chapter, we derive the photon ﬂux that accounts for the solid angle. 2.4 Deﬁnition of the Solid Angle 23 Fig. 2.6 Deﬁnition of the solid angle. Consider a cone whose apex is in the center of a sphere with radius r and assume that it cuts out an area A from the surface of the sphere. The solid angle ω expresses the degree of the opening as seen from the apex 2.4 Deﬁnition of the Solid Angle For the deﬁnition of the solid angle, consider a sphere with radius r as shown in Fig. 2.6. Assume that a cone with apex in the center of the sphere deﬁnes a certain partial area on the surface of the sphere. When A is assigned to that area, the solid angle ω is given by Eq. (2.6). ω A r2 (sr) (2.6) This means that the solid angle is the partial surface on the unit sphere. Its unit can be expressed as steradian (sr). In simple terms, we can consider the solid angle as the extension of the planar angle into three dimensions. 2.5 The Photon Flux from a Black Body With the above, we deﬁned the solid angle, and now we shall derive the photon ﬂux of black-body radiation that accounts for the solid angle. In order to discuss the number of photons instead of the photon energy, we ﬁrst divide the light intensity g(ν, T ) of the black-body radiation [shown in Eq. (2.5)] by the photon energy hν. 24 2 Photons from the Sun g(ν, T )  1 hν = 8π c3 ν2 exp  hν kT  1 (2.7) In the explanation for Eq. (2.1) in Sect. 2.1, we already noted that hν is the energy of a single photon with frequency ν. Therefore, the right-hand side of Eq. (2.7) is the number of photons per unit frequency per unit volume. In the following, we derive the photon ﬂux. Flux is a physical property of ﬂowing objects (in this case the photons) and expresses the amount (in this case the number of photons) that is transferred through a certain area per unit time. We require two additional parameters to describe the photon ﬂux, namely the photon velocity and the propagation direction of the photons. The photon velocity is of course the speed of light, and the direction of the photon emission from a black-body sphere has a spherical symmetry. A spherical symmetry means that for any sphere with arbitrary radius, we can consider the energy distribution of the photons on the spheres surface as being constant. The value of the total solid angle is equal to the maximum A (i.e., the surface of the sphere) divided by the square of the spheres radius. Using integration, this can be expressed as shown in Eq. (2.8). dω = 4πr2 r2 = 4π (2.8) To derive the photon ﬂux, we multiply Eq. (2.7) by the speed of light, and to obtain the value per unit solid angle, we divide the result by the total solid angle 4π. This leads to Eq. (2.9). g(ν, T )  1 hν  c 4π = 2 c2 ν2 exp  hν kT  1 G(ν, T ) (2.9) When we look at the units as we have done for Eq. (2.5), we obtain the following: [h]  [ν]3  [c] [c]3  [hν]  [ω] = J s Hz3 (m/s)3  1 J  m s  1 sr = 1 m2 s Hz sr This means that Eq. (2.9) describes the photon ﬂux per unit frequency that is incident from the unit solid angle on the unit area. Because Eq. (2.9) is frequently used for the evaluation of the solar cell conversion efﬁciencies in the following chapters, we deﬁne it as G(ν, T ) for convenience. Chapter 3 Graphical Solution for the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency in the Completely Ideal Case Abstract The goal of this book is to derive the conversion efﬁciency under con- sideration of the equilibrium between the carrier generation and recombination that occurs in the solar cell (i.e., under consideration of the detailed balance principle). As a step toward this goal, we shall ﬁrst determine the most basic conversion efﬁciency. The ideal efﬁciency curve u  νg, Ts  , which is derived in this chapter, is the basis of all conversion efﬁciency curves that are presented in the following chapters and thus constitutes an important relation. Besides the mathematical derivation of the ideal efﬁciency curve u  νg, Ts  , the present chapter also explains a visual approach, that is, a graphical solution for the efﬁciency curve, which provides a deeper understanding of u  νg, Ts  . With this visual approach, the reader can intuitively estimate the value of the ideal solar cell conversion efﬁciency without the need of solving the equations. In this chapter, we ﬁrst provide the deﬁnition of the solar cell conversion efﬁciency, and then explain details about the efﬁciency losses induced by the semiconductor band gap, and ﬁnally, we derive the energy conversion efﬁciency of the ideal solar cell. Keywords Band gap  Thermalization loss  Transmission loss  Ideal solar cell  Conversion efﬁciency 3.1 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell The solar cell conversion efﬁciency is an indicator that expresses how much of the incident light can be converted into electrical energy. This conversion efﬁciency can be represented as a fraction with the power of the incident light in the denominator and the electrical power obtained from the solar cell in the numerator.  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2019 T. Kita et al., Energy Conversion Efﬁciency of Solar Cells, Green Energy and Technology, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-9089-0_3 25 26 3 Graphical Solution for the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency  Conversion efﬁciency (%) = Generated electrical power(W) Incident light power(W)  100 (3.1) For example, if the power of the light incident on the solar cell is 100 W and the electrical power generated by the solar cell is 30 W, then the conversion efﬁciency is 30%. Electricity generation equal to 100 W by a solar cell under illumination with 100 W would be the most ideal case. However, a solar cell with a conversion efﬁciency of 100% is theoretically impossible. This is because several restrictions apply in the case of electricity generation using solar cells; a certain fraction of energy that cannot be used is unavoidable (Sect. 3.3 provides information on these restrictions). The reﬂectance loss, that is, the energy lost by the reﬂection of incident light at the solar cell surface, is an example of the energy that is contained in the incident light but cannot be used by the solar cell. In case of reﬂection at the surface, the amount of energy that can be absorbed by the semiconductor atoms inside the solar cell is reduced exactly by the amount of reﬂected light, and this is equivalent to a loss. Although this is a general problem, the reﬂectance loss can be reduced to a certain extent by adding a layer on the solar cell surface (the so-called anti-reﬂection layer). However, there are losses that cannot be avoided by any means. The maximum efﬁciency of an ideal solar cell that accounts for losses that are unavoidable is called the theoretical limit of the conversion efﬁciency or theoretical efﬁciency limit. We can characterize the quality of actually fabricated solar cells by using the the- oretical limit of the conversion efﬁciency as a reference value. All losses that can be suppressed by improvements, even those which can be only partially reduced (as in the case of the reﬂectance loss where an anti-reﬂection coating is implemented), are not considered in the theoretical efﬁciency limit and treated as zero loss. The theoretical efﬁciency limit is thus a value that represents the most ideal solar cell for a speciﬁc set of assumed conditions. Let us specify the unavoidable losses mentioned above. For the ideal efﬁciency curve u  νg, Ts  which is explained in this chapter, only two losses are considered: transmission losses and thermalization losses. For an in-depth explanation of these two losses, we refer the reader to Sect. 3.3. In brief, the transmission loss is a loss that arises if the incident light is not absorbed and passes through the semiconductor. In other words, not every wavelength can be absorbed by a semiconductor even if it is very thick. The thermalization loss is a loss that converts the excess energy provided by the incident light into heat. The transmission and thermalization losses are in a trade-off relation that is determined at the time of material selection, which means that if a material with small transmission losses is chosen, the thermalization losses become larger. Vice versa, if a material with small thermalization losses is chosen, the transmission losses become larger. The relation that exists between these two losses behaves like a seesaw. Due to this trade-off relation, the transmission losses 3.1 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell 27 and the thermalization losses cannot be suppressed at the same time i.e., the pair of these two losses represents an unavoidable loss. As a result, the ideal efﬁciency curve u  νg, Ts  is a curve that reﬂects the balance between the transmission and thermalization losses with respect to the incident solar spectrum. The theoretical limits of the conversion efﬁciencies that are derived in Chaps. 35 are those of single-junction solar cells (the solar cell with the structure that combines a p- and an n-type semiconductor layer as shown in Fig. 1.8 in Chap. 1). By employing u  νg, Ts  , the solar cell performance can already be roughly predicted at the time of selection of the semiconductor material employed in the single-junction solar cell, and is not a matter of mere chance. Considering the intense research and development of novel solar cells structures as discussed in Chap. 6, the present status and particular focus of the single-junction solar cell is that of the most basic solar cell (in terms of electrochemical cells, this would correspond to the voltaic pile). And the ideal efﬁciency curve u  νg, Ts  constitutes the basis for the derivation of the efﬁciency curve of the single-junction solar cell. Therefore, if one can grasp the idea of u  νg, Ts  , the application to many other solar cell conversion efﬁciencies becomes possible. 3.2 The Semiconductor Band Gap The band gap is one of the issues that were only brieﬂy touched during the expla- nation of the principle of electricity generation in Chap. 1. In the explanation about the photoexcitation of the electron and the hole upon light illumination of the semi- conductor atoms shown in Fig. 1.9, we emphasized that a photon with sufﬁciently high energy is required to excite the valence electron of the semiconductor atom. But the explanation of what can be considered sufﬁciently high was omitted. In the present section, we provide an explanation on the energy that can be utilized by the semiconductor. This enables us to understand the unavoidable losses (transmission and thermalization losses) that were mentioned in Sect. 3.1. For the following discussion on the energy, we employ a new representation of the pn junction that adds an energy axis (E-axis) to the spatial coordinate axes (x-axis and y-axis) used in Fig. 1.10. In Fig. 3.1, we show a three-dimensional-like representation of a pn junction. The three axes x, y, and E correspond to the direction normal to the pn junction interface in the center, the direction parallel to the interface, and the energy, respectively. The projection in the xy plane shown in Fig. 3.2 is the same view of the pn junction as that in Fig. 1.10 and similar ﬁgures. This view represents the planar coordinates that we can actually perceive with eyes. 28 3 Graphical Solution for the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency  Fig. 3.1 The newly introduced three-axes scheme of the pn junction: the energy axis is indepen- dent of the spatial coordinate axes (x-axis, y-axis) The xE plane in Fig. 3.3 represents the newly introduced energy concept. The areas shown in gray indicate the energy regions where electrons can exist (also called allowed bands), and the white segment that lies between the gray areas indicates the energy region where electrons cannot exist (this is the forbidden band). The energy that an electron possesses increases along the upward direction of the E-axis. Let us investigate the energy axis shown in Fig. 3.3 a little bit more in detail. Figure 3.4 is a diagram that focuses on the energy axis in Fig. 3.3. The electrons that attract and covalently bind the neighboring semiconductor atoms have low energy and are in a stable condition. They are shown on the bottom of the ﬁgure with the yellow dots. We note that Fig. 3.4 is the band diagram of an intrinsic semiconductor that contains neither donors nor acceptors. The broken line labeled with Ef expresses the Fermi energy of the semiconductor. As shown in this diagram, the electrons in the semiconductor completely ﬁll up the allowed band below the Fermi level (this band is called valence band). The allowed band above the Fermi level, which is called the conduction band, contains no electrons under equilibrium condition. In other words, this band is empty. The black line near the bottom of the xE plane, labeled EV, describes the upper edge of the valence band, and EC expresses the lower edge of the conduction band. The difference between EV and EC, which is the width of the forbidden band, is called band-gap energy and denoted by Eg. 3.2 The Semiconductor Band Gap 29 Fig. 3.2 The view of the pn junction in the xy plane: same representation as in the diagram of the pn junction in Sect. 1.2 Fig. 3.3 The view of the pn junction in the xE plane: the horizontal axis is the energy E and the vertical axis is the x-axis of the spatial coordinate system 30 3 Graphical Solution for the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency  Fig. 3.4 Under equilibrium condition, the valence electrons completely ﬁll up the conduction band Now, let us investigate how Fig. 3.4 changes if impurities that provide electrons are incorporated into the semiconductor, i.e., in case of adding donors. By adding donors, excess electrons will be released from them as already depicted in Fig. 1.8 in Sect. 1.2. Because the conduction band in Fig. 3.4 is already completely ﬁlled up with closely packed electrons, the excess electrons released from the donors cannot ﬁt into the conduction band. Under this condition, the excess electrons are placed in the upper allowed band (the conduction band), which is shown in Fig. 3.5a. On the other hand, if acceptors are added as an impurity, covalent bonds with missing electrons appear. Because such an electron deﬁcit can be treated as a hole, holes are placed in the valence band upon adding acceptors (Fig. 3.5b; open circles). Because excess electrons with smaller energy are more stable, they will ﬁrst accumulate in the lower conduction band edge state. On the other hand, the holes will ﬁrst accumulate in the upper valence band edge state since they are more stable if electrons with higher energies are absent. In the following, we explain the phenomenon of the photoexcitation of electron and hole depicted in Fig. 1.9, by using Fig. 3.6 which includes the newly introduced energy axis. When a photon with energy Ephoton larger than the semiconductor band- gap energy (Eg) is absorbed by the semiconductor crystal, a valence electron in the semiconductorreceivesthephotonsenergy.Theenergyofthevalenceelectronwhich exists in the conduction band increases exactly by the energy Ephoton. Therefore, the electron energy suddenly overcomes the forbidden band region and reaches a level in the conduction band. Consequently, the electron is released from the orbit of the covalent bond and is able to move around freely. This process constitutes the excitation of the electron. The empty location in the valence band that lost the valence electron due to the electron excitation becomes a hole (excitation of hole). With respect to the energy axis (when we observe the xE plane), the excited electron and hole exist at different coordinates. However, it is important to note that 3.2 The Semiconductor Band Gap 31 Fig. 3.5 The energy levels of electrons and holes that are released from impurities. a The excess electrons in an n-layer, b the holes in a p-layer of a semiconductor containing additional acceptors of a semiconductor containing additional donors 32 3 Graphical Solution for the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency  Fig. 3.6 The energy levels of the electron and hole that are generated via photoexcitation within the xy plane (that is, the actual spatial location), both electron and hole exist at the same coordinates at the instant of excitation. 3.3 Transmission and Thermalization Losses Caused by the Band Gap In Sect. 3.2, we introduced the concept of the semiconductor band gap. As explained in Fig. 3.6, the electron in the valence band is lifted up into the conduction band by incident photons with energy Ephoton  Eg. However, the band-gap energy of a semiconductor strongly depends on the crystal structure and atomic composition. In the present section, we explain what happens in cases of Ephoton being smaller or larger than Eg. In Figs. 3.7 and 3.8, we present schematics for the transmission losses and thermalization losses, respectively. First, we shall investigate the case of transmission losses which occur if the energy of the incident light, Ephoton, is smaller than the band-gap energy of the semiconductor, Eg. Consider an incident photon with Ephoton  Eg. Even if an electron at the top of the valence band absorbs this photon and its energy increases by Ephoton, the energy level of the excited electron would still be within the forbidden band. Such transitions with a forbidden ﬁnal destination (ﬁnal state) cannot occur. Therefore, any photon with energy Ephoton that cannot be received is not absorbed by the semiconductor and passes through it. In other words, the mechanism for photoexcitation of electron and hole in the semiconductor cannot utilize energies that are smaller than the band- gap energy Eg of the semiconductor. This unusable energy is called transmission loss. Here, we emphasize that the losses arising from incomplete absorption in thin samples are explained with a slightly different physical process (See Sect. 7.1). 3.3 Transmission and Thermalization Losses Caused by the Band Gap 33 Fig. 3.7 The schematic of the transmission loss caused by a too large band-gap energy Fig. 3.8 The schematic of the thermalization loss as a result of too small band-gap energy and a fast thermal relaxation time On the other hand, if the incident photon energy Ephoton is larger than Eg, the valence electron that received the energy reaches an energy level above the bottom of the conduction band (Fig. 3.8). In this case, unoccupied states exist in the con- duction bands energy region below the energy level of the excited electron. These are allowed states for the electron. In general, the occupation of a lower energy level results in reduced total energy of the system, and thus is more stable. Hence, the excited electrons movement is directed toward the lower-lying energy level, and in the following, the electron energy reaches the bottom of the conduction band by emitting thermal energy (in form of phonons). This phenomenon is called thermal relaxation and the time required by the electron to descend from the energetic loca- tion initially reached by excitation to the bottom of the conduction band is called thermal relaxation time. 34 3 Graphical Solution for the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency  The thermal relaxation time of the excited electron is on the order of 1013 s, and this is much faster than the time required by the electron to reach the n-layer by diffusion and be extracted from the electrode to the conducting wire, which are the processes for electricity generation shown in Fig. 1.11. Consequently, even if a photon with energy Ephoton  Eg has been absorbed, the energy in excess to Eg, Ephoton Eg, is unfortunately lost as heat and cannot be used as electrical energy. This is called thermalization loss. 3.4 Deﬁnition of the Ideal Solar Cell Conditions For the derivation of the ideal efﬁciency curve u  νg, Ts  , it is necessary to assume a model for the ideal solar cell. Here, we consider an ideal single-junction solar cell that fulﬁlls the following three conditions: Condition 1 All photons with energy Ephoton equal to or larger than the band-gap energy Eg generate electrons that provide an electromotive force equivalent to Eg (but, thermalization losses occur in case of Ephoton  Eg). The photons with energy below Eg generate nothing (transmission losses). According to this Condition 1, the usable energy that can be obtained from the incident photons is a constant (Eg). Furthermore, since we assume that we can extract the total energy corresponding to Eg directly as an electromotive force without further energy losses, the solar cell output voltage V under this condition can be considered equal to Eg/e. Here, the energy of the band gap has the unit electronvolt (eV), and the denominator e represents the elementary charge e = 1.602  1019 C. The charge of a single electron is e. Using the above, the voltage obtained from the ideal solar cell for different incident photon energies can be described by Eq. (3.2). Vg = 0, Ephoton  Eg Eg/e, Ephoton Eg (3.2) Condition 2 When one photon with energy Ephoton above Eg is absorbed, exactly one valence electron of a semiconductor atom is excited and extracted as current. In Eq. (2.9) in Sect. 2.5, we showed the connection between the photon frequency and the number of photons that are emitted from the Sun per unit time per unit solid angle and per unit area. The photon frequency is proportional to the energy as shown in Eq. (2.1). If the incident photon energy is larger than the semiconductor band gap, then the frequency of the incident photon, ν, is also larger than the frequency that corresponds to the band-gap energy, νg = Eg/h. Furthermore, all photons with frequency larger than νg are absorbed without fail according to Condition 1. And according to Condition 2, the number of excited electrons that can be extracted as the current is limited to the number of absorbed photons. In other words, the incident photon ﬂux equals the ﬂux of the photoexcited electrons. When we multiply the 3.4 Deﬁnition of the Ideal Solar Cell Conditions 35 electron ﬂux by the elementary charge, we obtain the current density J. Therefore, the current density generated by incident light with frequency ν can be calculated as shown in Eq. (3.3). J(ν) =  0, ν  νg eG(ν), ν νg (3.3) In the following chapters, we use the variable τs to describe the probability of generating an electronhole pair by a photon with energy above Eg. In case that the probability τs becomes unity, the incident photons generate electronhole pairs with a probability of 100%. This is equivalent to Condition 2. Condition 3 The temperature of the solar cell is assumed to be 0 K. Although we provide an explanation about the restrictions that apply to the con- version efﬁciency for a solar cell with a ﬁnite temperature T c in Chap. 4, the present chapter considers a solar cell temperature of 0 K for the derivation of the ideal efﬁ- ciency curve u  νg, Ts  . This assumption implies zero radiation from the solar cell to the outside. Inthischapter,wedonotconsideranyparametersexceptEg andT s.Inotherwords, the reﬂection at the solar cell surface, the extraction efﬁciency of the photoexcited electrons at the electrodes, and many others losses are not considered. The reader should bear in mind that the solar cell described in this chapter either absorbs or transmits the incident light, and generates electrical power by extracting all electrons that have been generated by absorption, and as such this solar cell is really very ideal. 3.5 The Three-Dimensional Visualization of the Solar Cells Output Power In the previous section, we provided the conditions that deﬁne the ideal solar cell used to derive the theoretical efﬁciency limit. The present section introduces a new three-dimensional graph in order to visualize both the input of the incident sunlight and the output that can be obtained by the electricity generation in the ideal solar cell. To develop such a three-dimensional graph, we ﬁrst prepare 2 two-dimensional graphs. The ﬁrst two-dimensional graph represents the relation between the photon frequency and its energy, which has been explained using Eq. (2.1). Below we provide Eq. (2.1) for reference, and in Fig. 3.9, we show the two-dimensional graph. E = hν (2.1) In Fig. 3.9, we employ the photon energy for the vertical axis, and the photon frequency for the horizontal axis. 36 3 Graphical Solution for the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency  Fig. 3.9 The two-dimensional graph that expresses the relation between the photon energy and its frequency according to Eq. (2.1) Fig. 3.10 A two-dimensional graph that expresses the relation between the photon frequency and the sunlights photon ﬂux deﬁned in Eq. (2.9) The second graph expresses the relationship provided in Eq. (2.9). Here, we again provide Eq. (2.9) for reference. G(ν, T ) = 2 c2 ν2 exp  hν kT  1 (2.9) G(ν, T ) describes the photon ﬂux with frequency ν that constitutes a part of the light radiated from a black body with temperature T . The black body that is here referred to is the Sun. As brieﬂy explained in Sect. 2.3, the black-body temperature is set to the surface temperature of the sun, T = 6000 K. In this case, the photon frequency ν is the only variable left, and therefore, we can plot the photon ﬂux G(ν, T ) in a two-dimensional graph with the photon frequency ν as the horizontal axis as shown in Fig. 3.10. Figure 3.9 essentially displays the same as the photon wavelengthenergy relation explained in Fig. 2.1 in Sect. 2.1, but employs Eq. (2.2) to convert the horizontal axis to the photon frequency. ν = c λ (2.2) 3.5 The Three-Dimensional Visualization of the Solar Cells Output Power 37 Fig. 3.11 A three-dimensional graph that represents the frequencyﬂuxenergy relation of the photons contained in sunlight obtained by combining Figs. 3.9 and 3.10 Similarly, Fig. 3.10 represents the black-body radiation graph explained in Fig. 2.5 in Sect. 2.3 in another form by converting the horizontal axis to the photon frequency. It is also possible to explain the ideal efﬁciency curve in terms of the photon wave- length. However, to simplify the calculations in Chap. 4 and later chapters, we convert the wavelength to frequency. We note that Figs. 3.9 and 3.10 have the same horizontal axis (photon frequency). In the following, we combine these 2 two-dimensional graphs and make a three- dimensional graph. Figure 3.11 is a straightforward overlay of Figs. 3.9 and 3.10, which are actually only projections of the three-dimensional volumes explained in the next section. Since our considerations regarding the three-dimensional solar cell power output and the solar cell losses in the next section are based on this three- dimensional graph, it should be helpful to memorize it. 3.6 The Derivation of the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency Curve for the Completely Ideal Case In the previous section, we ﬁnished the preparations for the three-dimensional graph. Now we can start with the graphical solution for the ideal efﬁciency. Let us ﬁrst determine the input for the solar cell, that is, the power Pin of the incident sunlight. The reader should be aware that in the completely ideal model, all light that is emitted from the Sun is incident on the solar cell, i.e., we consider the conversion efﬁciency for maximum concentration of sunlight. Under real-world conditions, only a fraction of the light emitted from the Sun is reaching the Earth and an even smaller fraction is incident on the solar cells surface. The conversion efﬁciencies for the unconcentrated condition are derived in the following chapters. 38 3 Graphical Solution for the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency  Pin has its origin in the black-body radiation from the Sun. The energy of a single photon with frequency ν is hν according to Eq. (2.1). As described in Fig. 3.10, the sunlight contains a different number of photons for each frequency ν. The number of photons contained at a certain frequency ν can be determined by Eq. (2.9), the black- body photon ﬂux G(ν, T ). Consequently, the total power of photons with frequency ν in the sunlight can be calculated via the product G(ν, T )hν. The sunlight contains photons with many different frequencies as explained with the prism experiment in Fig. 2.2. Therefore, the input power Pin is obtained by integration of the above power for monochromatic light over the whole wavelength region. Pin =   0 G(ν, T )  hν dν (3.4) In the following, we explain the integral in Eq. (3.4) step-by-step with the aid of the three-dimensional graph developed in Sect. 3.5. The integrand of Eq. (3.4), G(ν, T )  hν, is the power for a certain monochromatic light. When we visualize the integrand in the three-dimensional graph, we obtain the rectangular area shown in Fig. 3.12. The rectangular area in Fig. 3.12 represents the power of sunlight at a certain frequency ν (i.e., in case of a single color extracted from the sunlight). Because the integration in Eq. (3.4) is performed over frequencies ranging from zero to inﬁnite, we also try to visualize this in the ﬁgure. When we determine the rectangular areas for all frequencies ν and combine them, we obtain the incident power Pin from the sun (Fig. 3.13). Fig. 3.12 The power G(ν, T )  hν of sunlight at a certain frequency ν 3.6 The Derivation of the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency Curve  39 Fig. 3.13 The incident power Pin from the sun In the following, we determine the output power of an ideal single-junction solar cell that is made of a material with band-gap energy equal to Eg. The electrical power density Pout provided by the solar cell as output is calculated by the product between the output voltage and the output current density. The electrical output power density can be described by Eq. (3.5), which is the multiplication of the ideal solar cells output voltage (given in Eq. (3.1) according to Condition 1 in Sect. 3.4) and the ideal solar cells output current density (deﬁned by Eq. (3.3) according to Condition 2). Pout  νg  =   0 J(ν)  V (ν) dν =    0, ν  νg  νg G(ν, T )  hνg dν, ν νg (3.5) According to Eq. (3.5), the output power of the ideal solar cell equals the band-gap energy Eg  = hνg  multiplied by the area deﬁned by G(ν, T ) for ν  νg. When we represent this calculation in a diagram, it looks like Fig. 3.14. By employing the Pin and Pout  νg  that were obtained above, the ideal efﬁciency curve u  νg, Ts  can be calculated as shown in Eq. (3.6). u  νg, Ts  = Pout  νg  Pin  100 (3.6) Because the calculations in this book are performed for a ﬁxed sun temperature of T s = 6000 K, the ideal efﬁciency curve u can be expressed as a function of 40 3 Graphical Solution for the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency  Fig. 3.14 The volume shown in the ﬁgure is the electricity output Pout  νg  of the ideal solar cell Fig. 3.15 The ideal efﬁciency curve u  νg, Ts  the frequency νg only. Furthermore, because Eg and νg can be easily exchanged by employing the Planck constant, Eq. (3.6) can also be expressed as a function of the band-gap energy Eg. u  Eg, Ts  = Pout  Eg/h  Pin  100 (3.7) When we evaluate Eq. (3.6) for different band-gap energies, the ideal efﬁciency curve u  νg, Ts  can be plotted as shown in Fig. 3.15. The point of the maximum conversion efﬁciency lies at a band-gap energy of 1.12 eV, and there the theoretical limit of the conversion efﬁciency becomes 44.3%. 3.6 The Derivation of the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency Curve  41 Fig. 3.16 Visualization of the transmission losses using the three-dimensional graph With this calculation, we clariﬁed that even in an ideal solar cell, the upper limit of the theoretical conversion efﬁciency is unfortunately below 50%. In Sect. 3.3, we explained that this decrease in the conversion efﬁciency is caused by the trans- mission and thermalization losses. For Eg  1.12 eV, the thermalization losses are dominant, and for Eg  1.12 eV, the transmission losses are dominant. The optimum energy changes with the assumptions for the solar cell, as will become evident in the following chapters. In general, more non-idealities result in a larger value for the optimum Eg. Using the three-dimensional graph introduced in Sect. 3.5, we are able to visualize the transmission and thermalization losses (See Figs. 3.16 and 3.17). Since the extent of transmission losses and thermalization losses can immediately be estimated upon assignment of the band-gap energy Eg by using this visualization, this method should be very useful for the reader. The energy regions that could not be utilized are drawn in Figs. 3.16 and 3.17 and denoted as region 1 and region 2, respectively. The volume of region 1 repre- sents the region of photons with energies below the band-gap energy Eg, and thus expresses the transmission losses. The volume of region 2 in Fig. 3.17 represents the region of photons with energies larger than Eg, and thus expresses the losses through thermalization. The photons of this region are absorbed by the semiconductor, but the energy that can be used is limited to Eg. The energy above Eg is unfortunately converted into heat and cannot be utilized for electricity generation. This heat has also additional negative effects on the solar cell performance (See Sects. 4.1 and 6.7). The graphical representation of the transmission and thermalization losses shown in Figs. 3.16 and 3.17 should enable a better qualitative understanding of the concept of the solar cell efﬁciency. This is certainly helpful for the derivations of the different efﬁciency curves that appear in the following sections. 42 3 Graphical Solution for the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency  Fig. 3.17 Visualization of the thermalization losses using the three-dimensional graph Chapter 4 Inﬂuences of Carrier Generation and Recombination on the Solar Cell Conversion Efﬁciency Abstract In the previous chapter, we determined the ideal conversion efﬁciency u(νg, Ts) of an ideal solar cell. Since we wanted to know the limiting efﬁciency in the most ideal case, we neglected effects like internal generation of radiation and luminescence. However, the relation between the voltage and the current in an actual solar cell that employs a semiconductor diode (i.e., a pn junction) is incompatible with the assumptions in Sect. 3.4 (these assumptions enabled us to set the electromotive force equal to that provided by the potential Eg/e). In the present chapter, we analyze the conversion efﬁciency of a solar cell that possesses a nonzero temperature. By including losses that arise due to the very fact of a ﬁnite solar cell temperature, the relation between the current and voltage is derived, and then, we determine the open-circuit voltage and the short-circuit current. Keywords Radiative and non-radiative generation  Radiative and non-radiative recombination  Short-circuit current  Open-circuit voltage 4.1 The Solar Cells Energy Input In case of the ideal solar cell in the previous chapter, we assumed a cell temperature of 0 K. However, a real solar cell that is located on the Earths ground surface has a ﬁnite temperature Tc. To analyze the inﬂuence of the ﬁnite solar cell temperature, consider a solar cell with an area of 1 m2. In order to maximize the incident photon ﬂux, the upper side of this planar solar cell is facing the Sun. The geometric relation between the Sun and the solar cell is shown in Fig. 4.1. Because the black-body radiation is isotropically emitted, the photon ﬂux that actually reaches the Earth is expressed with the solid angle deﬁned by Suns diameter D and the distance L between Sun and Earth. Note that this ﬁgure does not represent the actual relative size difference between D and L. Because the Sun diameter D is  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2019 T. Kita et al., Energy Conversion Efﬁciency of Solar Cells, Green Energy and Technology, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-9089-0_4 43 44 4 Inﬂuences of Carrier Generation and Recombination  Fig. 4.1 Geometric relation between the Sun and the solar cell 1.39  109 m and the distance L between Sun and Earth is 149  109 m, the actual ratio is about D:L = 1:107. Consequently, the energy reaching the Earth is minute when compared with the total energy emitted by the Sun. To express this with a number, we have to employ the solid angle. Since we have D:L = 1:107, the area of the curved surface that forms the base of the cone shown in Fig. 4.1, A, can be regarded almost identical to the area of the circle that is deﬁned by the Suns radius. Using Eq. (2.6), the solid angle of the Sun as seen from the Earth, ω, can be evaluated as follows: ω = π  D 2 2 L2 = π  2.18  105 (sr) (4.1) By using this solid angle, the number of electronhole pairs generated per unit time as a result of the black-body radiation from the Sun, Fs, can be deﬁned as shown in Eq. (4.2). Fs = (the number of photons contained in the unit solid angle of incident black-body radiation at temperature Ts that can be absorbed per unit area and unit time)  (the solid angle of the Sun as seen from the Earth) (4.2) Here, the number of photons contained in the unit solid angle of incident black- body radiation at temperature Ts that can be absorbed per unit area and unit time is given by the following equation obtained through dividing by the band-gap energy hνg in accordance with Eq. (3.5): Pﬂux  νg, Ts     νg 2 c2 ν2 exp  hν kTs  1 dν (4.3) 4.1 The Solar Cells Energy Input 45 Because the solid angle of the Sun as seen from the Earth is given in Eq. (4.1), the use of the above equation allows us to express Fs as Fs = Pﬂux  νg, Ts   π  2.18  105 = Pﬂux  νg, Ts   π  fω (4.4) Here, we deﬁned fω 2.18  105 as the geometrical factor which is derived from the solid angle. In the following, we consider the inﬂuence of the solar cells own temperature. The fact that the solar cell has a ﬁnite temperature Tc means that the solar cell itself also emits black-body radiation. On the other hand, the solar cell does not only emit energy. In order to maintain its own temperature Tc, the solar cell absorbs black-body radiation from the surrounding according to the energy conservation law. Therefore, the fact that a solar cell possesses a constant temperature Tc implies that it is surrounded by a black body with temperature Tc. For the next step, consider the electronhole pairs that are generated by the radia- tion of the black body with temperature Tc. Here, the radiation from the black body at temperature Tc is incident on the semiconductor, and the probability tc for generating an electronhole pair by the incident photons that have an energy larger than Eg is set to 100%, i.e., tc = 1. A solar cell in form of a planar slab is assumed. First consider only the case of incidence from one side as shown in Fig. 4.2, since the same conclu- sions can be drawn for the front and back surface. Black-body radiation comes from a hemispherical region and strikes the solar cell under various angles of incidence. Consider that the incident light is inclined by θ with respect to the normal direction of the planar solar cell. The contribution of the radiation normal to the slab can then be expressed by multiplying by cosθ. As the incident angle becomes shallower with respect to the surface, i.e., θ becomes larger, the number of photons incident per unit time is decreasing. Consequently, in case of incident sunlight that is inclined by θ with respect to the solar cells normal direction, the number of photons that can be absorbed in the planar solar cell per unit time per unit area is given by Eq. (4.5). Pﬂux  νg, Tc   cosθ (4.5) This partial ﬂux has to be integrated over the hemispherical region as shown in Eq. (4.6).  hemisphere Pﬂux  νg, Tc   cosθdω (4.6) The inﬁnitesimal solid angle d is determined in the following. It is known that the inﬁnitesimal area dA of the surface of a sphere expressed in spherical coordinates is dA = r2sinθdφdθ (4.7) 46 4 Inﬂuences of Carrier Generation and Recombination  Fig. 4.2 Black-body radiation received by the solar cell to maintain its temperature. Since we consider a planar solar cell, the photon ﬂux depends on the angle of the incident light. For incident light that is inclined by θ with respect to the normal direction of the planar solar cell, the photon ﬂux contribution is obtained via the projection by cosθ After a short consideration of the meaning of the solid angle, deﬁned in Sect. 2.4 as the fraction of the sphere surface divided by r2, the inﬁnitesimal solid angle dω can be written as follows: dω = sinθdφdθ (4.8) By employing the above, the rate of the electronhole pair generation by black- body radiation incident from the hemisphere (deﬁned by 0 θ π/2 and 0 φ  2π) at temperature Tc can be calculated straightforwardly. 2π  0 π 2  0 Pﬂux  νg, Tc   cosθsinθdθdφ = Pﬂux  νg, Tc  2π  0 dφ π 2  0 1 2sin2θdθ = Pﬂux  νg, Tc   π (4.9) Equation (4.9) takes only the front surface into account. The addition of the identical solution for the back surface simply increases the generation rate of the electronhole pairs by factor two. The resulting Eq. (4.10) deﬁnes the generation rate Fc0 which represents the generation of electronhole pairs in a solar cell with temperature Tc. Fc0 = Pﬂux  νg, Tc   2π (4.10) 4.2 The Relation Between Electrical Current and Voltage 47 4.2 The Relation Between Electrical Current and Voltage Let us consider the relation between the electrical current and the voltage of a solar cell in a steady-state condition. When we analyze the number of electrons that can be extracted as current from a solar cell, we always have to keep in mind the following four parameters: the rate of electronhole pair generation by sunlight, the radiative recombination rate of the electronhole pairs (which results in photon emission), the non-radiative generation rate of the electronhole pairs, as well as their non-radiative recombination rate (which results in heat generation). Below, we explain these four parameters step by step. 1. Rate of electronhole pair generation by sunlight Upon illumination of the solar cell with light, the semiconductor in the solar cell absorbs this light which generates holes in the valence band and electrons in the conduction band. As explained in the previous section, the generation rate of elec- tronhole pairs induced by sunlight is Fs, i.e., the rate of electronhole pair generation by the black-body radiation of the Sun. 2. Radiative recombination rate of electronhole pairs The electrons and holes that have been generated by light illumination eventually recombine with each other in order to reach the thermal equilibrium. In this case, we can consider that recombination of the electron with the hole occurs faster for higher densities of electrons in the conduction band and holes in the valence band. As the recombination process in a semiconductor under moderate excitation can be considered a statistical process of collisions between electron and holes, it is evident that the rate of recombination increases for a higher electronhole pair density. Here, we assume that the radiative recombination rate per unit area, Fc, is proportional to the product of electron density n and hole density p, i.e., Fc n  p. The electron density n and hole density p under steady-state non-equilibrium conditions such as light illumination can be described by the following equations: n = niexp  Efe Ei kTc  (4.11) p = niexp  Ei Efh kTc  (4.12) For the derivation of these expressions, we refer the reader to Chap. 8. Here, Efe and Efh are the quasi-Fermi levels of the electron and the hole, respectively. Ei is the intrinsic Fermi level, ni is the intrinsic carrier density, k is the Boltzmann constant, and T c is the solar cell temperature. Using Eqs. (4.11) and (4.12) and a proportionality constant α, the radiative recom- bination rate Fc can be expressed as shown in Eq. (4.13). Fc(V ) = α  np = αn2 i  exp  Efe Efh kTc  (4.13) 48 4 Inﬂuences of Carrier Generation and Recombination  It is important to note that Fc is a function of EfeEfh. EfeEfh corresponds to the light-induced voltage V in the semiconductor which is observed upon illumination with sunlight: eV = Efe Efh (4.14) Furthermore, if we deﬁne eVc = kTc (4.15) the Fc becomes a function of V and can be expressed in rather simple terms as shown in Eq. (4.16). Fc(V ) = αn2 i  exp  V Vc  (4.16) This equation is an important analytical result in the work of Shockley and Queisser. It provides deep insight into the physics of the electricity generation in solar cells. To evaluate α, we consider the thermal equilibrium (i.e., the condition that is reached if the solar cell is kept in dark). Here, the electron and hole Fermi lev- els are equal and thus V = 0. Further, under equilibrium condition the electronhole pair generation rate Fc0 is equal to the recombination rate of the electronhole pairs for V = 0, that is, Fc(0) = Fc0. From the above, we obtain Fc(0) = αn2 i = Fc0 (4.17) and the radiative recombination rate Fc(V) can be rewritten as shown in Eq. (4.18). Fc(V ) = Fc0exp  V Vc  (4.18) 3. Non-radiative generation rate and non-radiative recombination rate of electron hole pairs Similar to the case of the radiative processes, we can suppose that the rates of the electronhole recombination belonging to the class of non-radiative processes also increase for a higher density of electrons in the conduction band and a higher density of holes in the valence band. Therefore, we assume that the non-radiative recom- bination rate per unit area, R, is proportional to the electron density times the hole density, i.e., R n  p. As a consequence, the non-radiative recombination rate R also becomes a function of V like the radiative recombination rate Fc(V ), and we obtain Eq. (4.19). R(V ) = R(0)exp  V Vc  (4.19) 4.2 The Relation Between Electrical Current and Voltage 49 Here, R(0) is the non-radiative generation rate of electronhole pairs as a result of the thermal activation of carriers via defects in the semiconductor crystal. When we summarize the above points 13, we ﬁnd that the number of electrons that can be extracted as electric current I is the sum of the electronhole pair genera- tion rate Fs (due to black-body radiation from the Sun), the non-radiative generation rate R(0), and the electronhole pair generation rate Fc0 (due to the ﬁnite solar cell temperature T c) reduced by the radiative recombination rate Fc(V ) and the non- radiative recombination rate R(V). Hence, we obtain the following equation: I/e = Fs + Fc0 Fc(V ) + R(0) R(V ) (4.20) Letusanalyzethestructureoftheaboveequation,whichisusefulforthederivation of the relation between current and voltage in the steady-state condition. I/e = Fs + Fc0 Fc(V ) + R(0) R(V ) I = e{Fs + Fc0 Fc(V ) + R(0) R(V )} I = e Fs + Fc0 Fc0exp  V Vc  + R(0) R(0)exp  V Vc  I = eFs + e{Fc0 + R(0)} 1 exp  V Vc  I = eFs + eFc0 fc 1 exp  V Vc  (4.21) Here, fc is deﬁned as the ratio of radiative electronhole pair generation to total electronhole pair generation. fc = Fc0 Fc0 + R(0) (4.22) More precisely, fc is the ratio between the net rate of electronhole pair generation by radiation only and the net generation rate of electronhole pairs via both radiative and non-radiative processes. This deﬁnition is presented in Eq. (4.23). fc = Fc0 Fc(V ) Fc0 Fc(V ) + R(0) R(V ) (4.23) Equation (4.22) can be easily derived by substituting Eqs. (4.18) and (4.19) into Eq. (4.23). In the following, we examine fc and provide an explanation about its inﬂuence on the solar cell characteristics. We start with the consideration of the net rate of electronhole pair generation by the solar cells own radiation, Fc0 Fc(V ) = Fc0 1 exp  V Vc   0 (4.24) and the net rate of electronhole pair generation via non-radiative processes, 50 4 Inﬂuences of Carrier Generation and Recombination  R(0) R(V ) = R(0) 1 exp  V Vc   0 (4.25) The voltage V in the above equations is the maximum voltage that can be obtained from the solar cell under a certain illumination according to Eq. (4.14), and thus, V  0 V holds. Furthermore, from Eq. (4.15) we ﬁnd Vc  0 V, and thus, exp(V/Vc) is larger than one. Consequently, the sign of the expression inside the curly brackets of Eqs. (4.24) and (4.25) becomes negative, which results in the inequalities on the right-hand side. Therefore, the net rate of electronhole pair generation by the solar cells own radiation is negative for both radiative and non-radiative processes (a negative generation rate means recombination). The underlying physics of these negative net generation rates is important to understand the conversion efﬁciencies of solar cells. Under thermal equilibrium, the voltage V is zero because the (quasi-)Fermi levels of electrons and holes are equal (for details, see Chap. 8). Consequently, we have Fc0 = Fc(0) as shown in Eq. (4.17). On the other hand, if the solar cell is illuminated with light, this disturbs the thermal equilibrium and the number of electronhole pairs increases due to the illumination, which means that the quasi-Fermi levels shift. A potential difference V  0 V is established as a result of the shift in the quasi-Fermi levels of both the electron and the hole. Because the electrons and holes attempt to reach the original thermal equilibrium condition, the amount of recombination increases as described by Eq. (4.18). In order to revert the system to the equilibrium condition, the net generation rate of electronhole pairs that is induced by the solar cells own radiation has to be negative. The same is true for the net rate of electronhole pair generation via non-radiative processes. Now, we focus on the second term in Eq. (4.21), eFc0 fc 1 exp  V Vc  From the above, we have 1 exp  V Vc   0 and therefore eFc0 fc 1 exp  V Vc   0 holds. Since fc is a variable between 0 and 1, the extractable current provided in Eq. (4.21), I = eFs + eFc0 fc 1 exp  V Vc  4.2 The Relation Between Electrical Current and Voltage 51 is maximized if the fc in the second term is unity. Therefore, the extractable current decreases for values of fc less than unity. Below, we consider the differences that arise between the two cases fc = 1 and fc  1. First, consider the case fc = 1. According to Eq. (4.22), this condition is reached if R(0) = 0 which implies that non-radiative generation of electronhole pairs is absent. Furthermore, R(V ) becomes zero as shown in Eq. (4.19), which means that non-radiative recombination is also absent. Consequently, the recombination losses due to non-radiative processes are suppressed in case of fc = 1, and this would enable realization of the highest conversion efﬁciency. However, this is an ideal case. On the other hand, for fc  1 the non-radiative recombination rate R(0) is nonzero. Let us consider the behavior of the solar cell performance that is observed upon changing the value of R(0). If the R(0) in fc = Fc0 Fc0 + R(0) in Eq. (4.22) increases, an increase in the non-radiative recombination rate is induced as is evident from R(V ) = R(0)exp  V Vc  in Eq. (4.19). This results in a reduction of the conversion efﬁciency. The reduction in the conversion efﬁciency is not linear in R(0); i.e., the relative difference in the maximum conversion efﬁciencies for R(0)/Fc0 = 0.01 and R(0)/Fc0 = 0.1 is more signiﬁcant than that obtained for R(0)/Fc0 = 0.1 and R(0)/Fc0 = 1. The above discussion shows that the conversion efﬁciency is higher for fc being closer to unity, because the loss through non-radiative recombination is suppressed. As such, the value of fc is important for considerations on the conversion efﬁciency. More details are provided in Chap. 5. 4.3 Short-Circuit Current and Open-Circuit Voltage Short circuit means that there is no potential barrier for the current. In terms of a simple electrical circuit with an Ohmic load, this is equivalent to zero voltage. Equation (4.21) stated that the extractable current of the solar cell is I = eFs + eFc0 fc 1 exp  V Vc  52 4 Inﬂuences of Carrier Generation and Recombination  Because the ﬁrst term in Eq. (4.21) constitutes the total current for setting V = 0 in the second term, i.e., the short-circuit condition, we deﬁne the ﬁrst term as short- circuit current and denote it by Ish as shown in Eq. (4.26). Ish = eFs (4.26) In the following, we consider the maximum current I0 that can be extracted in case of no illumination with sunlight, which implies that the rate Fs for the electronhole pair generation via sunlight is zero. Since there is no illumination with sunlight, the electronhole pairs are only generated via the solar cells own radiation (at a rate Fc0) and the non-radiative process (at a rate R(0)). Neglection of radiative and non-radiative recombination of the electronhole pairs results in Fc(V ) = 0 and R(V ) = 0. Hence, the maximum current I0 is deﬁned as I0 e{Fc0 + R(0)} (4.27) By employing this and the deﬁnition of fc (i.e., the ratio between the radiative generation rate and the total generation rate of electronhole pairs) in Eq. (4.22), the second term in Eq. (4.21) can be rewritten as shown in Eq. (4.28). eFc0 fc 1 exp  V Vc  = eFc0 Fc0 Fc0+R(0) 1 exp  V Vc  = I0 1 exp  V Vc  (4.28) Using the short-circuit current deﬁned in Eq. (4.26) and the above maximum extractable current from a solar cell without sunlight illumination, the current I that can be extracted from the solar cell, i.e., Eq. (4.21), can ﬁnally be represented as Eq. (4.29). I = eFs + eFc0 fc 1 exp  V Vc  = Ish + I0 1 exp  V Vc  (4.29) Open circuit means that the conducting wires are not connected, which is equiv- alent to zero current. Hence, to determine the open-circuit voltage, we have to set I in Eq. (4.21) to zero. eFs + eFc0 fc 1 exp  V Vc  = 0 (4.30) By solving for V, the open-circuit voltage can be obtained as shown in Eq. (4.31). 4.3 Short-Circuit Current and Open-Circuit Voltage 53 Vop = Vcln  fc Fs Fc0 + 1  (4.31) In all practical solar cell devices, the rate of electronhole pair generation by sunlight, Fs, is exceeding Fc0 by far. Using Fs Fc0, we can approximate the term in the brackets in Eq. (4.31) as fc Fs Fc0 + 1 = fc Fs Fc0 Furthermore, by substituting Eq. (4.4) for Fs and Eq. (4.10) for Fc0 into Eq. (4.31), the open-circuit voltage Vop becomes a funtion of Pﬂux  νg, Ts  as shown in Eq. (4.32). Vop = Vcln  fc Fs Fc0 + 1  = Vcln  fc Fs Fc0  = Vcln fc fωπ Pﬂux  νg, Ts  2π Pﬂux  νg, Tc  (4.32) If we now deﬁne f fc fω/2, Eq. (4.32) can be written as Vop = Vcln f Pﬂux  νg, Ts  Pﬂux  νg, Tc  (4.33) In Chap. 3, we stated that the open-circuit voltage Vop equals Vg in case of a solar cell temperature Tc = 0 K. However, an actual solar cell possesses a ﬁnite value for the temperature Tc, and therefore, the open-circuit voltage Vop is deﬁnitely smaller than Vg (this will become evident in the following discussion). Let us clarify how the open-circuit voltage Vop is affected by the temperature Tc. We deﬁne xg and xc in order to simplify the calculations. xg = hνg/kTs = Eg/kTs (4.34) xc = Tc/Ts (4.35) If we replace hν/kTs in Eq. (4.3) (which represents Pﬂux(νg, Ts)), by x, we obtain Eq. (4.36). Pﬂux  νg, Ts  2(kTs)3 h3c2   xg x2 exp(x) 1dx (4.36) 54 4 Inﬂuences of Carrier Generation and Recombination  Similarly, Pﬂux  νg, Tc  can be rewritten as Pﬂux  νg, Tc  2(kTc)3 h3c2   xg/xc x2 exp(x) 1dx (4.37) Using these two equations for Pﬂux  νg, Ts  and Pﬂux  νg, Tc  , Eq. (4.33) can be expressed as follows: Vop = Vcln f Pﬂux  νg, Ts  Pﬂux  νg, Tc  = Vcln f x3 c  xg x2 exp(x)1dx  xg/xc x2 exp(x)1 (4.38) From this, we can verify that Vop depends on xg, xc, and f , besides the simple factor Vc. When we employ v = Vop/Vg to describe the ratio between the open-circuit voltage for temperature Tc and Vg, we obtain v  xg, xc, f  Vop Vg = xc xg ln f x3 c  xg x2 exp(x)1dx  xg/xc x2 exp(x)1 (4.39) which depends on xg, xc, and f in the same way as Vop in Eq. (4.38). This v  xg, xc, f  constitutes an important factor in the adjustment of the ideal solar cells conversion efﬁciency that is presented in the next Chap. 5. Chapter 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined by the Detailed Balance Model Abstract In the previous chapter, we discussed the conditions that apply to the actual solar cell but were not considered for the ideal solar cell. In order to derive the maximum output power of the actual solar cell, we have to discuss the balance between absorption (resulting in electrical current) and emission (due to the estab- lished voltage). Therefore, the present chapter discusses the balanced condition of voltage and current by employing the currentvoltage relation determined in the previous chapter. Based on that, the conversion efﬁciency of the actual solar cell is derived. Then, we discuss the contributions of the different types of losses that occur in a solar cell with a single band gap. Keywords Detailed balance  ShockleyQueisser limit  Conversion efﬁciency  Losses in single-junction solar cell 5.1 The Nominal Efﬁciency As preparation, we ignore the balance between the carrier generation and recombina- tion that takes place at the solar cells operating point for maximum output power and consider the so-called nominal conversion efﬁciency. The operating point deﬁnes the voltage maximizing the output power of a solar cell under a certain illumination con- dition. Generally, this voltage is smaller than Vop, since no current can be extracted from a solar cell at Vop which is equivalent to zero electrical power. The calculation of the nominal conversion efﬁciency assumes that the voltage and current that can be extracted are equal to the open-circuit voltage Vop and the short-circuit current Ish, respectively. In other words, this model considers no maximum of the output power since it neglects the real currentvoltage (IV) curve, which is a common plot to characterize the solar cell behavior for various loads.  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2019 T. Kita et al., Energy Conversion Efﬁciency of Solar Cells, Green Energy and Technology, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-9089-0_5 55 56 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined  If we deﬁne the incident light power as Pinc, the nominal energy conversion efﬁciency ηnom of the solar cell becomes ηnom = VopIsh Pinc (5.1) The IV characteristic of this model consists of two straight lines as shown in Fig. 5.1. The actual IV curve, however, possesses a curvature at the corner as shown in Fig. 5.5, and therefore the actual energy conversion efﬁciency will of course differ from that given in Eq. (5.1). These details are elaborated in Sect. 5.2. Here, we proceed by assuming that such a rectangular currentvoltage characteristic can be obtained. What value can we actually expect from Eq. (5.1)? The result of the follow- ing derivation reveals that the conversion efﬁciency for the unbalanced condition, ηnom, can be expressed as the product of the ideal solar cell efﬁciency u  νg, Ts  and v  xg, xc, f  (= Vop/Vg). Let us start with the calculations. Using the Pﬂux  νg, Ts  obtained in Chap. 4, the ideal conversion efﬁciency can be written as shown in Eq. (5.2). u  νg, Ts  = Pout  νg  Pin = hνgPﬂux  νg, Ts  Pin (5.2) Fig. 5.1 IV characteristic for the nominal efﬁciency model 5.1 The Nominal Efﬁciency 57 By employing this, the incident sunlight power Pinc impinging on the solar cell can be expressed as Pinc = π fω Pin = πhνg fω Pﬂux  νg, Ts  u  νg, Ts  (5.3) Further, by substituting Eq. (4.4) (the rate of electronhole pair generation via the solar black-body radiation) into Eq. (4.26) which represents the short-circuit current Ish, and by substituting Eq. (5.3) into Eq. (5.1), we obtain the following equation: ηnom = VopIsh Pinc = Vopefωπ Pﬂux  νg, Ts   πhνg fω Pﬂux(νg,Ts) u(νg,Ts)  = Vop Vg u  νg, Ts  = v  xg, xc, f  u  νg, Ts  (5.4) Here, we employed Vg = hνg/e from Eq. (3.1). The nominal conversion efﬁciency is thus given by the product of u  νg, Ts  and v  xg, xc, f  . By using Eqs. (3.7) and (4.39) for u  νg, Ts  and v  xg, xc, f  in Eq. (5.4), respec- tively, and assuming f = 1.09105 ( fc = 1, fω = 2.18105) and a temperature of Ts = 6000 K for the Sun, and Tc = 300 K for the solar cell, the nominal conver- sion efﬁciency ηnom can be plotted as a function of the band-gap energy as shown in Fig. 5.2. Compared to the conversion efﬁciency u of the completely ideal model, which was determined in Chap. 3, an overall efﬁciency decrease (due to the factor v(xg, xc, f )) can be conﬁrmed for ηnom. The nominal conversion efﬁciency exhibits a maximum of 34.4% at a band-gap energy of 1.25 eV. Fig. 5.2 Comparison between (a) the ideal conversion efﬁciency u (derived in Chap. 3) and (b) the nominal conversion efﬁciency ηnom. The nominal conversion efﬁciency is the ideal efﬁciency multiplied by the ratio of open-circuit voltage to band-gap voltage, i.e., u  νg, Ts   v  xg, xc, f  58 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined  5.2 The Detailed Balance Limit of the Conversion Efﬁciency During the derivation of the nominal conversion efﬁciency in Sect. 5.1, we omitted a discussion of the conversion efﬁciency at the operating point, which is the point of maximum output power in the IV curve. In other words, the balance between the carrier generation and recombination that occurs under the particular condition for maximum extractable electrical power was not considered. To improve this point, we discuss the voltage for the maximum power condition of the solar cell, V max. According to Eq. (4.33), the IV characteristic of the solar cell is described by the following equation: I = Ish + I0  1 exp  V Vc  = (Ish + I0) I0 exp  V Vc  (5.5) For our purpose, it is useful to rewrite the currentvoltage characteristic in Eq. (5.5) in terms of the open-circuit voltage V op. Under the consideration of Eqs. (4.22), (4.26), and (4.27), we can express the ﬁrst term in the second equality of Eq. (5.5) as shown below. Ish + I0 = eFs + I0 = eFs Fc0 + R(0) Fc0 + R(0) + I0 = I0 Fs Fc0 + R(0) + I0 = I0  fcFs Fc0 + 1  (5.6) The open-circuit voltage V op, derived in Eq. (4.31), reads Vop = Vc ln  fcFs Fc0 + 1  (4.31) By solving for the term in the logarithm, we obtain the following equation. fcFs Fc0 + 1 = exp Vop Vc  After substituting this equation into Eq. (5.6) and replacing Ish + I0 in Eq. (5.5) by the result, the IV characteristic can be expressed with V op as shown below. I = I0  exp Vop Vc  exp  V Vc  (5.7) 5.2 The Detailed Balance Limit of the Conversion Efﬁciency 59 By multiplying both sides of Eq. (5.7) by the voltage V, we obtain the equation that relates the voltage V and the electrical power (IV) that can be extracted from the solar cell. I V = I0V  exp Vop Vc  exp  V Vc  (5.8) By plotting a graph that uses the voltage as the horizontal axis and the electrical power IV as the vertical axis, we obtain the curve shown in Fig. 5.3. The maximum output power is at the peak of the IVV curve, i.e., where the slope becomes zero. Therefore, the following condition holds for the operating point for maximum output power: d(I V ) dV V =Vmax = 0 The derivative of Eq. (5.8) with respect to V is given in Eq. (5.9). d(I V ) dV = I0 exp Vop Vc    I0 exp  V Vc  + I0 V Vc exp  V Vc  = I0  exp Vop Vc  V + Vc Vc exp  V Vc  = 0 (5.9) The voltage V that satisﬁes Eq. (5.9) is the voltage for the maximum output power, V max. To solve this mathematical problem, we deﬁne zop and zm as follows: zop Vop Vc zm Vmax Vc (5.10) Fig. 5.3 IVV characteristic of a single-junction solar cell 60 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined  By employing these variables, Eq. (5.9) can be expressed as the following simple Eq. (5.11). zop = zm + ln(1 + zm) (5.11) Additionally, in the present discussion about the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency, we consider that the temperature of the solar cell is constant (T c = 300 K). Therefore, the V c in Eq. (5.10) is a constant according to Eq. (4.15). Vc = kTc e = constant (5.12) Hence, Eqs. (5.10) and (5.11) state that V op is a function of V max only. Conse- quently, these equations predict that the open-circuit voltage V op is always larger than V max. Furthermore, by plotting Eq. (5.11), we obtain the graph shown in Fig. 5.4, which evidences that zop is a monotonically increasing function. Therefore, zop can be determined if we know zm, and vice versa. In the following, we are going to express the open-circuit voltage V op, the short- circuit current Ish, the voltage at the maximum power point, V max, as well as the corresponding current I (V max) as a function of zm. The open-circuit voltage V op can be determined using Eq. (5.11) and the deﬁnition of zop given in Eq. (5.10). Vop = Vczop = Vc{zm + ln(1 + zm)} (5.13) The short-circuit current Ish is the current obtained from Eq. (5.7) with V = 0. Therefore, Ish can also be expressed by using Eqs. (5.10) and (5.11) as shown in the following equation: Fig. 5.4 Relation between zm and zop 5.2 The Detailed Balance Limit of the Conversion Efﬁciency 61 Ish = I0 exp  zop  1 = I0 exp{zm + ln(1 + zm)} 1  = I0 exp(zm){1 + zm exp(zm)} = I0zm exp(zm) + I0 exp(zm){1 exp(zm)} = I0zmexp(zm) + I0{exp(zm) 1} (5.14) Using the deﬁnition of zm in Eq. (5.10), V max can be written as Vmax = Vczm (5.15) By substituting V max for V in Eq. (5.7), the current for the maximized output, I (V max), can be determined. I(Vmax) = I0 exp  zop  exp(zm) = I0 exp{zm + ln(1 + zm)} exp(zm)  = I0zm exp(zm) (5.16) A comparison of Eqs. (5.14) and (5.16) shows that I (V max) is smaller than Ish by exactly the value of I0{exp(zm) 1}. Figure 5.5 plots the calculation result for the IV curve of a Si solar cell (Eg = 1.1 eV, T c = 300 K) with an area of 1 cm2. The currentvoltage characteristic of the actual solar cell is described by an arc (in contrary to the two straight lines in Fig. 5.1). We can conﬁrm that the voltage V max and the current I (V max) of the maximum output power condition are smaller than the open-circuit voltage V op and the short-circuit current Ish, respectively. The maximum output power condition of this IV curve deﬁnes a coefﬁcient that is extremely important for the solar cell, the so-called ﬁll factor (FF), which is given by the following equation: Fig. 5.5 Theoretical IV curve of a Si solar cell 62 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined  FF I(Vmax)Vmax VopIsh (5.17) Equation (5.17) can be represented as the ratio between the blue and green rectan- gular areas shown in Figs. 5.6 and 5.7, respectively. Because the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency is the maximum output power divided by the incident solar power, we obtain η = Pmax Pinc = I(Vmax)Vmax Pinc = VopIsh Pinc  I(Vmax)Vmax VopIsh Fig. 5.6 Visualization of the product VmaxI (Vmax) Fig. 5.7 Visualization of the product VopIsh 5.2 The Detailed Balance Limit of the Conversion Efﬁciency 63 = ηnom  FF (5.18) ηnom is the nominal conversion efﬁciency determined in Sect. 5.1 and deﬁned in Eq. (5.4), which is provided below for reference. ηnom = VopIsh Pinc = v  xg, xc, f  u  νg, Ts  (5.4) From Eq. (5.18), we understand that the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency (where the maximum power can be extracted from a solar cell) is the product of the ﬁll factor FF and the nominal conversion efﬁciency. According to the deﬁnition of the ﬁll factor FF in Eq. (5.17), the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency can be calculated if we can obtain values for the open-circuit voltage V op, the short-circuit current Ish, the voltage V max of the maximum power condition, and the corresponding current I (V max). By substituting Eqs. (5.13)(5.16) for V op, Ish, V max, and I (V max) in the deﬁnition of the ﬁll factor FF, Eq. (5.17) can be expressed in terms of zm only. FF = I(Vmax)Vmax IshVop = I0zm exp(zm)  Vczm I0 exp(zm){1 + zm exp(zm)}  Vc{zm + ln(1 + zm)} = z2 m {1 + zm exp(zm)}{zm + ln(1 + zm)} (5.19) The relation between FF and V op calculated using Eq. (5.19) is shown in Fig. 5.8. Here, FF increases as V op becomes larger and exhibits values between 0.25 and 1. If the value of zop is known, evaluation of FF is possible because zm is obtained from zop via Eq. (5.11). Fig. 5.8 Relation between FF and zop 64 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined  Finally, let us calculate the actual numbers of the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency as a function of Eg. As we have already explained, the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency can be expressed as the product between the ﬁll factor FF, the v  xg, xc, f  determined in Sect. 5.1, and the energy conversion efﬁciency u  νg, Ts  of the ideal solar cell determined in Sect. 3.6 that is Eq. (5.20). η = u  νg, Ts   v  xg, xc, f   FF (5.20) By employing Eq. (5.10), we can calculate zop from the open-circuit voltage V op. Then, by using Eq. (5.11), zm is obtained from zop. By substituting this value for zm into Eq. (5.19), the ﬁll factor FF can be evaluated. The detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency can be calculated by multiplying the above value of FF by the nominal conversion efﬁciency derived in Sect. 5.1, Eq. (5.4). Below, we provide an ordered list of the relationships that are sequentially used for this calculation. u  νg, Ts  =   νg G(ν)  hνg dν   0 G(ν)  hν dν  100 (3.4)(3.6) v  xg, xc, f  = Vop Vg =  Vc Vg  ln  f x3 c   xg x2dx exp(x)1   xg/xc x2dx exp(x)1   (4.38) xg = Eg/kTs (4.34) xc = Tc/Ts (4.35) FF = z2 m {1 + zm exp(zm)}{zm + ln(1 + zm)} (5.19) zop = zm + ln(1 + zm) (5.10)(5.11) In Fig. 5.9, we plot the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency calcu- lated via Eq. (5.20) as a function of the band-gap energy together with the result for the ideal solar cell. Here, we assumed a temperature of Ts = 6000 K for the Sun, Tc = 300 K for the solar cell, and f = 1.09  105 ( fc = 1, fω = 2.18  105). Further, νg is the frequency that corresponds to the band-gap energy, and G(ν) is the incoming photon ﬂux per unit area per unit time and per unit solid angle. Curve (a) in Fig. 5.9 is the ideal solar cells conversion efﬁciency, which assumes that an open-circuit voltage equivalent to the band-gap energy can be realized and that all photons from the Sun with Ephoton  Eg are absorbed and excite electrons. Therefore, the theoretical limit of the conversion efﬁciency of the ideal solar cell reaches 44.3% for a semiconductor with Eg = 1.12 eV. The curve (b) in Fig. 5.9 is the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency which adds the conditions regarding the solid angle of the Sun as seen from the Earth, the solar cell being a black body with temperature T c, and the ﬁll factor, to the ideal solar cell conditions. The conversion efﬁciencies decrease upon adding 5.2 The Detailed Balance Limit of the Conversion Efﬁciency 65 Fig. 5.9 Curve (a) shows the ideal solar cells conversion efﬁciency and curve (b) the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency further restrictions; compared to the reduction in the conversion efﬁciency observed in Fig. 5.2, the conversion efﬁciency shown in Fig. 5.9 (b) decreased once more. The additional reduction is exactly that induced by the ﬁll factor. Furthermore, from the relation between the ﬁll factor and the open-circuit voltage shown in Fig. 5.8, we ﬁnd that the value of the ﬁll factor increases for higher open-circuit voltages, i.e., the ﬁll factor is larger for semiconductors with larger Eg. Therefore, the band-gap energy where the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency reaches its maximum is larger than the band-gap energy for the maximum conversion efﬁciency of the ideal solar cell, 1.12 eV. The detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency is maximized for a semiconductor with Eg = 1.34 eV where it reaches 30.5%. This value, the so-called ShockleyQueisser (SQ) limit, is a very famous number among solar cell scientists. It is the ultimate energy conversion efﬁciency of a single-junction solar cell that considers all unavoidable losses due to restrictions that apply to single- junction solar cells on the Earth. Gallium arsenide (GaAs) is a semiconductor with a band-gap energy of 1.42 eV at room temperature and possesses characteristics that are close to those required for realizing the SQ limit. Indeed, the solar cells based on GaAs have achieved the highest conversion efﬁciencies among the single-junction solar cells. To conclude this section, we discuss the inﬂuence of f on the conversion efﬁciency. In Sect. 4.3, we deﬁned f fc fω/2. Since fω 2.18105 is the geometric factor which is determined by the solid angle of the Sun, we can consider that f is changed solely via its dependence on fc. According to fc = Fc0 Fc0 + R(0), (4.22) fc approaches zero in the lower limit (R(0) ) and unity in the upper limit (R(0) = 0), i.e., 0  fc 1. The detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency discussed here is for the case of fc = 1, that is, exactly that solar cell efﬁciency that 66 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined  is obtained for the case of zero non-radiative electronhole pair generation and also zero non-radiative recombination. If non-radiative recombination occurs frequently, the value of fc becomes signiﬁcantly smaller than unity and f drops below the value of 1.09  105 which was used for the detailed balance model discussed above. As a result, the value of the open-circuit voltage V op presented in Eq. (4.38) drops, and the conversion efﬁciency decreases. In other words, if the value of f becomes small, the conversion efﬁciency decreases. In Fig. 5.10, we plot the conversion efﬁciency as a function of the band-gap energy for various fc. As discussed above, the conversion efﬁciency decreases with the decrease in fc. On the other hand, the optimal band-gap energy increases with a decrease in fc. Figure 5.11 shows the fc dependence of the IV curve for a Si solar cell (Eg = 1.1 eV, T c = 300 K) with an area of 1 cm2. Closed circles indicate the maximum power point for each fc. Fig. 5.10 Detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency for various f c Fig. 5.11 Theoretical IV curve of a Si solar cell for various f c. Closed circles indicate the maximum power point 5.2 The Detailed Balance Limit of the Conversion Efﬁciency 67 The open-circuit voltage V op quickly drops from 0.849 to 0.611 V when fc decreases from 1 to 104. Conversely, the short-circuit current Ish hardly depends on fc because we assumed inﬁnitely high mobility of electrons in the detailed balance model, that is, the excited electron can be extracted as current at the short-circuit condition. On the other hand, the ﬁll factor FF slightly decreases from 0.867 to 0.830 when fc decreases from 1 to 104. As the short-circuit current and ﬁll factor are insensitive to fc, the optimal band-gap energy shown in Fig. 5.10 results from the drop of the open-circuit voltage with decreasing fc. We note that f is usually determined by the crystal quality of the material used for the solar cell. 5.3 Losses in Solar Cells In Chap. 3, we assumed that the voltage corresponding to the total band-gap energy can be extracted as is, that is, we considered the most ideal solar cell. In Chap. 4, we considered the carrier generation and the recombination processes that are inher- ently connected to the ﬁnite temperature of the solar cell and discussed the fact that the open-circuit voltage of the solar cell is less than the band-gap voltage (i.e., the voltage equivalent to the band-gap energy). Then, in the present chapter, the analysis of the currentvoltage characteristics within the framework of the detailed balance theory clariﬁed that the voltage Vmax of the maximum output power condition of the solar cell is less than the open-circuit voltage Vop. In this way, the discussions extending from Chaps. 3, 4 and this chapter were concerned with the voltage reduc- tions (below values corresponding to the band-gap energy) that originate from the semiconductor characteristics. In this section, we shall consider the detailed balance between absorption and emission excluding non-radiative transitions and trace the drop of the solar cell voltage from the viewpoint of statistical thermodynamics. The approach based on statistical thermodynamics has been put into a systematic scheme for the ﬁrst time by Hirst and Ekins-Daukes in the year 2011 [1], and the present section explains their analytical approach. Inthischapter,weexpressed Vmax usingEq.(5.15),butwewerenotabletoanalyt- ically derive Vmax at that stage. Here, we analytically derive Vmax by employing the Boltzmann approximation and gain a deeper understanding of the relation between the voltage and the band-gap energy. As explained above, the solar cell output power is the product of current and voltage. First, let us determine the current I by using an approximation. In the model that excludes non-radiative recombination ( fc = 1), the number of electrons that can be extracted as current I from the solar cell per unit time, I/e, is the rate of electronhole generation by the black-body radiation from the Sun, Fs, subtracted by the rate of radiative recombination inside the solar cell, Fc(V ). This relation is shown in Eq. (5.21). I e = Fs Fc(V ) (5.21) 68 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined  By expanding Eq. (5.21) into several speciﬁc terms using the Boltzmann approxi- mation and analyzing the contents of the equation, we shall clarify the terms that are responsible for the reduction of the solar cell voltage to values below the band-gap voltage (Eg/e). Let us begin with rewriting Fs and Fc(V ) as more explicit equations. As also mentioned in Chap. 4, Fs can be evaluated by substituting Eq. (4.3) into Eq. (4.4). Pﬂux  νg, Ts     νg 2 c2 ν2 exp  hν kTs  1 dν (4.3) Fs = Pﬂux  νg, Ts   π  fω (4.4) Because we aim to clarify the difference between the voltage V and the band-gap energy Eg, we reformulate Eq. (4.3) as Eq. (5.22) which employs the energy E as a variable instead of the frequency ν. Pﬂux(E, Ts)    Eg 2 c2  E h 2 exp  hE kTsh  1 dE h =   Eg 2 c2h3 E2 exp  E kTs  1 dE (5.22) By substituting Eq. (5.22) into Eq. (4.4), we obtain the result shown in Eq. (5.23). Fs =   Eg 2 c2h3 E2 exp  E kTs  1 dE  π  fω (5.23) Next, let us derive an analytical expression for the radiative recombination rate Fc(V ). As shown above, Fc(V ) can be represented as Eq. (4.18). Fc(V ) = Fc0 exp(V/Vc) (4.18) If we now use Vc = kTc/e according to Eq. (4.15), Eq. (4.18) becomes Fc(V ) = Fc0 exp  eV kTc  (5.24) Equation (5.25) for Fc0 can be obtained by applying the following procedure to Eq. (5.23) for Fs: replace the solar temperature Ts by the solar cell temperature Tc and replace the solid angle π  fω of the incident sunlight by the solid angle of emission of light due to radiative recombination, which is 2π (see Sect. 4.1). 5.3 Losses in Solar Cells 69 Fc0 =   Eg 2 c2h3 E2 exp  E kTc  1 dE  2π (5.25) By substituting Eq. (5.25) into Eq. (5.24), we obtain Fc(V ) =   Eg 2 c2h3 E2 exp  E kTc  1 dE  2π  exp  eV kTc  (5.26) Since both Fs and Fc(V ) have been determined, we can insert the solutions into Eq. (5.21) and obtain Eq. (5.27) for I/e. I e =   Eg 2  π fω c2h3 E2 exp  E kTs  1 dE    Eg 2  2π c2h3 E2 exp  E kTc  1 dE  exp  eV kTc  (5.27) Because this equation is rather complex, we simplify it by using the Boltzmann approximation. The band-gap energy of the common solar cell material Si is Eg = 1.12 eV. By using this value for E in exp(E/kTs), which is a part of the denominator of the ﬁrst term on the right-hand side of Eq. (5.27), the exponential function becomes about 8.7, i.e., exp(E/kTs) 1. Hence, the denominator exp(E/kTs) 1 can be approximated as exp(E/kTs). Further, if we use 1.12 eV for E in exp(E/kTc), it becomes about 6.3  1018, and the denominator of the second term can also be approximated as exp(E/kTc). Consequently, Eq. (5.27) can be altered and written as Eq. (5.28). I e    Eg 2  π fω c2h3 E2 exp  E kTs dE    Eg 2  2π c2h3 E2 exp  E kTc dE  exp(eV/kTc) 2  π fω c2h3 kTs  E2 g + 2kTsEg + 2k2T 2 s  exp Eg kTs  2  2π c2h3 kTc  E2 g + 2kTcEg + 2k2T 2 c  exp eV Eg kTc  (5.28) The solar cell output power Pout can be expressed as the product of the I shown in Eq. (5.28) and V. Pout = 2e  π fω c2h3 kTs  E2 g + 2kTsEg + 2k2T 2 s  exp Eg kTs   V 2q  2π c2h3 kTc  E2 g + 2kTcEg + 2k2T 2 c  exp eV Eg kTc   V (5.29) 70 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined  Let us determine the voltage of the maximum output power condition, Vmax, that is obtained for a certain Eg. From Fig. 5.2, we ﬁnd that the Eg dependence of Pout exhibits a maximum. We calculate the derivative of Eq. (5.29) with respect to Eg and obtain Vmax analytically via the condition for the maximum output power as shown in Eq. (5.30). For this derivation, V is treated as a constant. In other words, by solving Eq. (5.30), we can determine the Eg that results in the maximized Pout for a certain V. dPout dEg = 0 (5.30) By performing the derivative in Eq. (5.30) and collecting the terms, we obtain the result shown in Eq. (5.31). Since Eq. (5.30) is the condition for the maximum Pout, we replaced V by Vmax. 2eVmax c2h3  π fωkTs  2Eg + 2kTs  exp Eg kTs  π fωkTs  E2 g + 2kTsEg + 2k2T 2 s  1 kTs exp Eg kTs  2πkTc  2Eg + 2kTc  exp eVmax Eg kTc  +2πkTc  E2 g + 2kTcEg + 2k2T 2 c  1 kTc exp eVmax Eg kTc  = 0 π fω exp Eg kTs  2π exp eVmax Eg kTc  = 0 (5.31) By solving Eq. (5.31) for Vmax, we obtain Eq. (5.32). Vmax = Eg e  1 Tc Ts  kTc e ln 2π π fω (5.32) The obtained Vmax does not completely correspond with that calculated in the detailed balance model, because we obtained Vmax by using the condition d(I V ) dV V =Vmax = 0 in Sect. 5.1 for the maximum output power. The analytical Vmax of Eq. (5.32) is identical to Vmax in Sect. 5.1 at the optimal band-gap energy. Because we want to verify the difference between the band-gap voltage and the voltage at the maximum output power condition, we reformulate the above relation as Eg e Vmax = Eg e Tc Ts + kTc e ln 2π π fω (5.33) 5.3 Losses in Solar Cells 71 The ﬁrst term on the right-hand side of Eq. (5.33) represents the voltage loss that occurs as a result of a ﬁnite solar cell temperature larger than zero. This type of loss is called Carnot loss which increases as Tc/Ts increases. If the Sun and solar cell temperatures are equal, no work can be extracted. The second term represents the voltage loss that occurs as a result of the differences between the solid angle of the sunlight incident on the solar cell and that of the light emitted by the solar cell. This type of loss is called Boltzmann loss. For the ideal solar cell, we assumed that a voltage equivalent to the band gap can be extracted, but the Vmax that accounts for the detailed balance between absorption and emission is smaller than the band-gap energy. In the following, we shall consider the physical meanings of the Carnot and Boltzmann losses derived above, which constitute the origins of this voltage drop. In thermodynamics, there exists a law that states that the efﬁciency in a process exchangingenergybetweenahigh-andalow-temperatureheatreservoircannotreach 100% if the lower temperature is different from absolute zero. This law is called the second law of thermodynamics. Similarly, when we treat the Sun as the hot reservoir and the solar cell itself as the cold reservoir, this law of thermodynamics can also be applied to the case of the solar cell system, which implies that unavoidable losses exist. Let us clarify how the loss induced by the nonzero temperature of the solar cell, Tc, can be mathematically represented within the framework of thermodynamics. Consider the energy transfer between the hot reservoir with temperature Thigh and the cold reservoir with temperature Tlow. Assume a so-called Carnot cycle, the cyclic reversible process drawn in Fig. 5.12, for a photon gas system. Each point in this graph represents a state of the gas, deﬁned by volume and pressure. The transition A B is an isothermal expansion which maintains the high temperature Thigh of the gas. Because the pressure of the photon gas depends not on the volume, the pressure is constant during the transition A B. The transition B C expands the gas under a thermally isolated condition (adiabatic expansion), which lowers the temperature to Tlow. Via the isothermal compression C D and the adiabatic compression D A, the gas returns to the state A. Let us determine the work done by one complete loop of this Carnot cycle. If we deﬁne U as the internal energy of the present system, Q as the amount of heat added to the system, and W as the work done on the outside of the system, the relation of these properties can be represented as Eq. (5.34) according to the ﬁrst law of thermodynamics. U = Q W (5.34) By deﬁning QAB as the amount of heat added to the system during the transition A B and UAB as the change in the inner energy, the work WAB performed during the transition A B can be written as Eq. (5.35). WAB = QAB UAB (5.35) 72 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined  Fig. 5.12 Carnot cycle of the photon gas Volume Pressure Isothermal Isothermal Adiabatic Adiabatic A B D C Thigh Tlow The U of a certain system is determined by the change in the temperature. Since A B is an isothermal transition, UAB is zero. Therefore, we have WAB = QAB (5.36) Because we need to express QAB as a function of the temperature, we introduce the entropy S. S is the change in the entropy and deﬁned by Eq. (5.37). S Q T (5.37) If we express the S during the transition A B as SB SA and use Eq. (5.37), QAB can be written as Eq. (8.38). QAB = Thigh(SB SA) (5.38) By substituting Eq. (5.38) into Eq. (5.36), WAB becomes WAB = Thigh(SB SA) (5.39) With this Eq. (5.39), we are able to describe the work done during A B. WBC is given by Eq. (5.40), which can be obtained by considering that the transition B  C occurs under a thermally isolated condition and thus the heat added to the system is zero. WBC = UBC (5.40) WCD and WDA can be obtained in the same way. 5.3 Losses in Solar Cells 73 WCD = Tlow(SA SB) (5.41) WDA = UDA (5.42) The work WCarnot done during one complete loop of the Carnot cycle is the sum of the works described by Eqs. (5.39)(5.42). The temperature changes for the tran- sitions B C and D A are Thigh Tlow and Tlow Thigh, respectively, and thus have the same absolute magnitude but their signs are opposite. As a result, the expression for WCarnot can be derived as shown in Eq. (5.43), which includes the fact that UBC and UDA exactly cancel each other. WCarnot = Thigh(SB SA) UBC + Tlow(SA SB) UDA = Thigh(SB SA) + Tlow(SA SB) = (Thigh Tlow)(SB SA) (5.43) Theefﬁciencyof acompletecycleof theCarnot process is calledCarnot efﬁciency, ηCarnot, and is deﬁned as the ratio of WCarnot to the amount of heat QAB added to the system. ηCarnot = WCarnot QAB =  Thigh Tlow  (SB SA) Thigh(SB SA) = 1 Tlow Thigh (5.44) Equation (5.44) shows that total input (the heat QAB) during one cycle of the Carnot process cannot be completely converted into output (the work WCarnot deliv- ered to the surrounding); the output suffers a loss corresponding to the input multi- plied by Tlow/Thigh. In the same manner, the solar cell can also not exceed the Carnot efﬁciency, because the solar cell transports energy to a cold heat reservoir with nonzero temperature (the solar cell with temperature Tc). The model in this section is the model that considers the detailed balance between absorption and emission without non-radiative recombination. Therefore, the losses in the current are only those resulting from radiative recombination. Consequently, we can consider that the loss induced by the nonzero solar cell temperature inﬂuences the voltage only. As explained in Chap. 3, in the ideal solar cell without losses due to non-radiative recombination and the FF, the extractable voltage is the voltage corresponding to the band gap, Eg/e. If we now add the conclusions from the interpretation in terms of thermodynamics, we have a voltage loss that is exactly the ideal voltage Eg/e times Tc/Ts. Hence, the solar cell performance loss due to the ﬁnite nonzero Tc, PCarnot, can be written as shown in Eq. (5.45). 74 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined  PCarnot = I (Vmax) Eg e Tc T s (5.45) This corresponds to the ﬁrst term in Eq. (5.33), the Carnot loss. Next, we shall consider the Boltzmann loss from the viewpoint of statistical ther- modynamics. As preparation for the considerations on the Boltzmann loss, we ﬁrst discuss the relation between the entropy and the losses. The entropy is used as an indicator for the randomness of a macroscopic state (probability for a certain state to appear statistically). Furthermore, the energy con- servation law can be formulated as Eq. (5.46) by using the input energy Ein. Ein = W + Q (5.46) From Eq. (5.37), we ﬁnd that if the temperature of the system T is invariable, an increase in S leads to an increase in Q. In other words, the increase in S means that energy is lost as heat. Since the increase in the entropy is accompanied by an increase in the losses, we need to clarify how the solar cell characteristics change with the entropy. In statistical thermodynamics, the entropy S is deﬁned by Eq. (5.47), which assumes w as the number of states for the particles in the system (that is, number of possible particle conﬁgurations that lead to the same macroscopic properties). S = k ln w (5.47) The sunlight is incident on the solar cell with an incident solid angle π fω as shown in Fig. 5.13. On the other hand, the solar cell itself emits light (generated by radiative recombination) into the emission solid angle of 2π (see Sect. 4.1). Sun Solar cell Solar cell Fig. 5.13 Incident solid angle and the emission solid angle are strongly different in case of solar cells without lenses for the concentration of sunlight 5.3 Losses in Solar Cells 75 The w for the photons contained in a speciﬁc solid angle changes according to the solid angle. In case of a solar cell without lenses for the concentration of sunlight, the emission solid angle is larger than the incident solid angle, and therefore, the w for the photons emitted by the solar cell is larger. From Eq. (5.47), we ﬁnd that S increases upon an increase in w. The change in the entropy that occurs as a result of the different solid angles for incidence and emission can be expressed as shown in Eq. (5.48). S = k ln 2π k ln π fω = k ln 2π π fω (5.48) From Eq. (5.37), we understand that the energy equal to the product of S and the solar cell temperature Tc is lost as heat. As in the case of the Carnot loss, the present model does not consider any current losses except those due to radiative recombination. Hence, the loss described by Eq. (5.48) inﬂuences the voltage only. The loss with respect to the solar cell output power that is induced by the difference between the entropies of the incident and emission solid angles, PBoltzmann, can be written as shown below. PBoltzmann = I (Vmax)kTc e ln 2π π fω (5.49) This performance loss corresponds to the second term in Eq. (5.33), the Boltzmann loss. The above clariﬁes that, in addition to the Carnot loss, also the Boltzmann loss reduces the voltage. Figure 5.14 plots the maximum output power Pmax and the relative contribu- tion of each of the ﬁve loss mechanisms (transmission, thermalization, Boltzmann, Carnot, radiative recombination) with respect to the total input power for various band-gap energies. For the plot of the output power, we employed Eq. (5.18). For the graph of the transmission loss Pbelow, we evaluated the volume of region ➀in Fig. 3.16 using Eq. (5.50), and to evaluate the volume of region ➁in Fig. 3.17 for the thermalization loss Pthermalization, we used Eq. (5.51). The graphs for the Carnot loss and the Boltzmann loss were drawn using Eqs. (5.45) and (5.49), respectively. The energy lost per carrier involved in radiative recombination is the energy difference from the valence band maximum to the conduction band minimum, i.e., Eg. In terms of voltage, this energy corresponds to Eg/e. The rate for radiative recombination is Fc(V ) as provided by Eq. (4.16). The loss in the current due to radiative recombi- nation under the maximum output power condition can be expressed as eFc(Vmax). Therefore, the non-radiative recombination losses under the maximum output con- dition can be written as Eq. (5.52). For reference, the relationships used to draw Fig. 5.14 are given below in order. Pmax = I (Vmax)Vmax (5.16) 76 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined  Fig. 5.14 Breakdown of the losses in single-junction solar cells with different Eg Pbelow = νg  0 G(ν, T )  hν dν (5.50) Pthermalization =   νg G(ν, T )  hν dν    νg G(ν, T )  hνgdν (5.51) PCarnot = I (Vmax) Eg e Tc Ts (5.45) PBoltzmann = I (Vmax)kTc e ln 2π π fω (5.49) Pemission = Eg e  eFc(Vmax) = EgFc(Vmax) (5.52) Next, we shall analyze the losses at the maximum output power condition in more detail. For Fig. 5.15, ﬁrst consider the ﬂux of incident photons that is obtained by integration over the range from a certain energy (shown on the x axis) to inﬁnite energy. Figure 5.15 plots this total ﬂux of photons multiplied by the elementary charge e as a function of the lower integration boundary. This ﬁgure was drawn using the calculation results of the Eq. (5.53). e  Fs (5.53) 5.3 Losses in Solar Cells 77 In case of the currentvoltage characteristics within the framework of the detailed balance theory, the output power of the solar cell reaches the maximum at Eg = 1.34 eV (Fig. 5.9). The photons with energy larger than the band-gap energy are absorbed, but the excess energy will result in thermalization losses. Furthermore, photons with energy less than 1.34 eV cannot be absorbed, and thus result in trans- mission losses. Figure 5.16 visualizes the thermalization and transmission losses. The rectangular area obtained by excluding the thermalization and transmission losses in Fig. 5.16 is the output of the solar cell for the completely ideal case with Eg = 1.34 eV, which was discussed in Chap. 3. Because the vertical axis of Fig. 5.16 is the incident photon ﬂux times the elementary charge, the height of the rectangular area obtained by excluding the thermalization and transmission losses represents the extractable current of the solar cell in the model for the nominal conversion efﬁciency shown in Fig. 5.2, which does not account for carrier recombination. In this section, we consider the detailed balance between absorption and emis- sion excluding non-radiative recombination. Therefore, the causes for the cur- rent reduction are transmission and radiative recombination only. Accordingly, the Fig. 5.15 Total incident photon ﬂux obtained by integration from a certain photon energy (shown on the x axis) to , multiplied by the elementary charge Fig. 5.16 Visualization of the thermalization and transmission losses for a single-junction solar cell with Eg = 1.34 eV 78 5 The Conversion Efﬁciency of a Solar Cell as Determined  charge-carrier ﬂux (I/e) is the photon ﬂux Fs absorbed by the solar cell subtracted by the radiative recombination rate Fc(Vmax). If we insert the value of Vmax obtained for Eg = 1.34 eV into Eqs. (4.10) and (4.18), we have eFc(Vmax) = 1.26103 C/cm2. The graph including the radiative recombination losses is shown in Fig. 5.17. Since the presently considered model does not account for the non-radiative tran- sitions, the current can only be reduced by transmission and radiative recombination. Therefore, the Carnot and the Boltzmann losses are not responsible for the current reduction, but responsible for the voltage reduction. Finally, let us determine the extent of the voltage drop that is caused by the Carnot loss and the Boltzmann loss. According to Eq. (5.45), the Carnot loss can be represented as I (Vmax)  (EgTc)/(eTs) and thus the voltage drop caused by the Carnot loss can be determined by dividing Eq. (5.45) by I (Vmax), resulting in  EgTc  /(eTs). Equation (5.54) evaluates  EgTc  /(eTs) using the assumptions Tc = 300 K and Ts = 6000 K. EgTc eTs 0.067 V (5.54) InEq.(5.55),thevoltagelossinducedbytheBoltzmannloss,kTc/e ln(2π/π fω), is evaluated for the same assumptions. kTc e  ln  2π π fω  0.296 V (5.55) Figure 5.18 shows Fig. 5.17 extended by the above results of the Carnot and Boltzmann losses. From Fig. 5.18, we can understand that the Carnot and Boltzmann losses are the origins of the reduction from the band-gap voltage to the actually extractable voltage under the maximum output power condition of the solar cell. Fig. 5.17 Radiative recombination losses in relation to the thermalization and transmission losses for a single-junction solar cell with Eg = 1.34 eV 5.3 Losses in Solar Cells 79 Fig. 5.18 Output power and the breakdown of the losses for a single-junction solar cell with Eg = 1.34 eV The different types of losses in a solar cell are important factors for determining the conversion efﬁciency. The losses induced by transmission and radiative recom- bination lead to a decay in the output current, and the thermalization, Boltzmann, and Carnot losses reduce the output voltage. Due to these hardly avoidable losses in a solar cell, the conversion efﬁciency of a solar cell with a single band gap is limited even if we consider an ideal carrier extraction. This limit is the SQ limit, and to exceed this limit, we have to suppress the losses explained in this section to a certain extent. In Chap. 6, we clarify the conversion efﬁciencies of actual solar cells by using more concrete calculations and present the physics of the technologies that suppress such losses and enable the realization of efﬁciencies beyond higher than the SQ limit. Reference 1. Hirst LC, Ekins-Daukes NJ (2011) Fundamental losses in solar cells. Prog Photovolt Res Appl 9(3):286293 Chapter 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Abstract In Chap. 5, we derived the single-junction solar cell conversion efﬁciency within the framework of the detailed balance theory and computed the solar spec- trum by employing Plancks law for black-body radiation. As explained in Sect. 2.2, the solar spectrum that passes the atmosphere differs according to the amount of air passed. This amount can be expressed as air mass (AM). In this chapter, we do not rely on the black-body radiation for the solar spectrum, but employ the actual spectral data for the sunlight that reaches the Earth after passing the atmosphere. With this data, we calculate the conversion efﬁciencies of several different solar cell structures. We ﬁrst recalculate the conversion efﬁciency of the single-junction solar cell in Sect. 6.1 by using the real solar spectrum. In Sect. 6.2, we determine the con- version efﬁciency of a solar cell under concentrated sunlight, which can be obtained, for example, by using a lens. Additionally, in Sects. 6.36.6 we discuss four selected solar cell structures that are recently attracting attention as novel types of solar cells with the ability to overcome the SQ limit. To exceed the SQ limit means that the transmission and thermalization losses, which we declared as being unavoid- able, have to be avoided somehow by using novel approaches. For the reduction of the losses and conversion of the sunlight into electrical power to the best extent possible, we can either increase the wavelength range that is employed by the solar cell for conversion into electrical power, or the opposite, and we can reshape the solar spectrum itself in such a way that it can be efﬁciently converted into electrical power by the solar cell. As examples for the ﬁrst-mentioned approach, we discuss the multi-junction solar cell (which can also be called tandem solar cell) in Sect. 6.3 and the intermediate-band solar cell in Sect. 6.4. Multi-junction solar cells comprise a multilayer structure where each of the stacked layers is a semiconductor junction with different Eg. This method enables capturing the light transmitted through one solar cell by another solar cell in the layer below. Therefore, the light that would usually be lost through transmission can be used for electricity generation, and this allows us to exceed the SQ limit of the single junction. This solar cell architecture has already been practically implemented, and the multi-junction type is the current world record holder in terms of solar cell performance. Unfortunately, the series  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2019 T. Kita et al., Energy Conversion Efﬁciency of Solar Cells, Green Energy and Technology, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-9089-0_6 81 82 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies connection between the junctions constitutes a drawback for the multi-junction solar cells. The tandem solar cells consist of stacked junctions that are serially connected. Therefore, the electricity generation is already completely suppressed if one of the stacked junctions does not operate. For example, a certain spectral part of the light may hardly reach the solar cell due to the scattering and absorption in clouds on a cloudy day. If due to this the electricity generation of any solar cell in the stack drops, the performance of the whole device is affected because the current that ﬂows through the directly affected cell is reduced and becomes the bottleneck of the whole device, even if the solar cells in the other layers work ﬁne. On the other hand, the intermediate-band solar cell has attracted attention as a solar cell architecture that promises high conversion efﬁciencies and can also lift the restrictions imposed by the series connection of the multi-junction tandem solar cells. This architecture reduces the transmission losses by implementing a new band (the so-called intermediate band) within the band gap of the solar cell. Because the direct absorption of the light via a transition between the conduction and the valence bands (a so-called interband transition) occurs in parallel with the stepwise absorption via the intermediate band, the intermediate-band solar cells electricity generation cannot be completely sup- pressed under clouded conditions as was the case for the multi-junction solar cells. In the intermediate-band solar cell, by absorbing a below-gap photon, an electron transits from the valence band to the intermediate band. Upon absorbing another below-gap photon, the electron is further excited into the conduction band. There transitions widely cover the solar spectrum. This two-step excitation (two-step pho- ton up-conversion) process following the absorption of two below-gap photons pro- duces additional photocurrent without degrading the photovoltage. Such two-step photoexcitation is known to occur at heterointerfaces. In Sect. 6.5, we deal with a solar cell containing a heterointerface in the intrinsic layer so-called two-step photon up-conversionsolarcell.Theconversionefﬁciencyofthesolarcellutilizinginterband and intraband transitions strongly depends on the absorptivity of these transitions. Detailed inﬂuences of the absorptivity of photovoltaic materials on the conversion efﬁciency are also discussed. Section 6.6 discusses one example for the reduction of losses by altering the solar spectrum. To reduce the transmission losses, it is nec- essary to convert the light in the long-wavelength region of the solar spectrum into light with shorter wavelengths. Similarly, to reduce losses through thermalization, it is necessary to convert the light in the short-wavelength region of the solar spectrum into light with longer wavelengths. We analyze how much the conversion efﬁciency can be improved by down-converting the short-wavelength light (high photon ener- gies) to long-wavelength light (small photon energies). Besides, the inﬂuences of changing weather conditions on the conversion efﬁciency of various types of solar cells are introduced in detail in Sect. 6.7. Up to Sect. 6.7, we proceed to discuss the solar cell at a constant temperature of 300 K. However, since concentration of sunlight is an important technique to enhance conversion efﬁciencies, the inﬂuence of 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies 83 the temperature has to be investigated. Due to the strong concentration of sunlight, the temperature of the concentrator solar cell device increases. If the temperature increases, the semiconductor band gap becomes smaller and furthermore, a higher the electronhole recombination rate (stronger black-body radiation) is observed as explained in Sect. 4.2; this causes a decrease in the conversion efﬁciency. In Sect. 6.8, we analyze the change in the single-junction solar cell efﬁciency that occurs upon a change in the solar cell temperature. The solar cell is the photovoltaic device used as a solar energy converter. When indoor light such as white light-emitting diode (LED) is harvested, the optimized energy structure of the photovoltaic materials is different from the results obtained for the sunlight. We touch the energy conversion efﬁciency of indoor photovoltaic cells in Sect. 6.9. Keywords Single-junction solar cell  Concentrator solar cell  Multi-junction solar cell  Intermediate-band solar cell  Two-step photon up-conversion solar cell  Spectral converter  Actual solar spectra 6.1 Single-Junction Solar Cell Tounderstandtheinﬂuenceoftheatmosphere,considerthecaseofthesingle-junction solar cell, which has served us as the most basic system. The calculations are per- formed with the AM data that is provided by the National Renewable Energy Labo- ratory (NREL), USA [1]. This data contains the spectral irradiation intensity (W/m2 nm) for each wavelength. By plotting this data, we obtain a curve as shown in Fig. 6.1. By dividing the spectral irradiance for each wavelength λ by the corresponding photon energy hv, the photon ﬂux per unit area and unit wavelength (m2 s1 nm1) is obtained. We deﬁne this value as N(λ), and by plotting it we obtain the graph shown in Fig. 6.2. Fig. 6.1 Solar spectrum from the AM data provided by NREL. Curve (a) is the data for AM0 and curve (b) that for AM1.5G 84 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Fig. 6.2 Photon ﬂux calculated from the AM data. Curve (a) is the result of N(λ) for AM0 and curve (b) that for AM1.5G A comparison between the photon ﬂux spectrum and the solar irradiance spectrum in Fig. 6.1 reveals a relative increase of the photon ﬂux spectrum at long wavelengths (which correspond to low-energy photons). In particular, the photon ﬂux N(λ) in the near-infrared region from about 700 to 2500 nm is pronounced, which makes this region very attractive for utilization in solar cells. By employing the N(λ) obtained from the AM data instead of the photon ﬂux G(ν, T ) derived from the black-body radiation, we can calculate the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency by the same procedure as in Chap. 5, that is, by using Eq. (5.20) and the equations shown below. η = u  νg, Ts   v  xg, xc, f   FF (5.20) First, consider u  νg, Ts  . In Sect. 3.6, we explained that the conversion efﬁciency u  νg, Ts  of the ideal solar cell can be calculated according to Eq. (3.6) by employing Eqs. (3.4) and (3.5) for Pin (power of the sunlight) and Pout (ideal solar cell output power), respectively. u  νg, Ts  = Pout  νg  Pin  100 (3.6) In the present case where the AM data is employed for the calculation, the output power Pout of an ideal solar cell with band gap Eg (equivalent wavelength: λEg) is described by Eq. (6.1) and the solar power Pin by Eq. (6.2). Pout = hνg λEg  0 N(λ)dλ (6.1) 6.1 Single-Junction Solar Cell 85 Pin =   0 N(λ)  hν dλ (6.2) As a result, the conversion efﬁciency of the ideal solar cell u  λEg  that employs the AM data can be calculated using Eq. (6.3). u  λEg  = hνg  λEg 0 N(λ)dλ   0 N(λ)  hν dλ  100 (6.3) The conversion efﬁciency in Eq. (6.3) is given in terms of a wavelength λEg (which corresponds to the band gap Eg). By converting the wavelength λ (nm) into energy (eV) and plotting the graph for the band-gap energy dependence of the ideal solar cell conversion efﬁciency, we obtain the curves shown in Fig. 6.3. Next, consider v  xg, xc, f  and the ﬁll factor FF. In Sect. 5.2, we explained that v  xg, xc, f  and the ﬁll factor FF can be calculated if the open-circuit voltage V op is known. Consequently, we can calculate v  xg, xc, f  and the ﬁll factor FF, after the open-circuit voltage V op has been evaluated using the AM data. Equation (4.32) shown below was used to evaluate the open-circuit voltage in Sect. 4.3. Vop = Vcln  fc Fs Fc0  = Vc ln  fc fωπ Pﬂux  νg, Ts  2π Pﬂux  νg, Tc  (4.32) Fig. 6.3 Solar cell conversion efﬁciency in the completely ideal case obtained by using the AM data. Curve (a) is the calculation result for AM0 and curve (b) that for AM1.5G 86 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies We can calculate the V op from the AM data by replacing the Fs = fωπ Pﬂux  νg, Ts  in Eq. (4.32) by the integrated photon ﬂux determined from the AM data, Fs = λEg  0 N(λ)dλ (6.4) The integration provides the total photon ﬂux that is absorbed by the semicon- ductor with Eg. Hence, Eq. (4.32) for the open-circuit voltage can be rewritten as shown in Eq. (6.5). Vop = Vcln  fc  λEg 0 N(λ)dλ 2π Pﬂux  νg, Tc  (6.5) Using this open-circuit voltage, we can determine v  xg, xc, f  and the ﬁll factor FF. By multiplying them by the ideal solar cell conversion efﬁciency u  λEg  deﬁned in Eq. (6.3), we can calculate the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency of a single-junction solar cell for the actual AM data. The calculation result is shown in Fig. 6.4. Below we provide an ordered list of the relationships that are used for this calculation. u  λEg  = hνg  λEg 0 N(λ)dλ   0 N(λ)  hν dλ  100 (6.3) v  xg, xc, f  = Vop Vg = Vc Vg ln    4 fc 2π 2k3T 3c h3c2    λEg 0 N(λ)dλ   xg/xc x2dx exp(x)1    xg = Eg/kTs Fig. 6.4 Detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency of a single-junction solar calculated using the AM data. Curve (a) is the result for AM0 and curve (b) that for AM1.5G 6.1 Single-Junction Solar Cell 87 xc = Tc/Ts (4.344.39), (6.6) FF = I(Vmax)Vmax IshVop = z2 m {1 + zm exp(zm)}{zm + ln(1 + zm)} (5.18) zop = Vop Vc = zm + ln(1 + zm) (5.95.10) Here, we used a Sun temperature of T s = 6000 K, a solar cell temperature of T c = 300 K, and f = 1.09  105  fc = 1, fω = 2.18  105 . We note that λEg is the wavelength that corresponds to the band-gap energy Eg, and N(λ) is the incident photon ﬂux per unit area. In Fig. 6.4, we can conﬁrm that the calculated maximum efﬁciency for AM1.5G exceeds that for AM0. This is due to the scattering and absorption by molecules in the air, which reduces the light intensity of the AM1.5G solar spectrum in the ultraviolet and infrared regions (Fig. 6.1 shows the comparison with the AM0 solar spectrum). The ultraviolet light is usually the origin of thermalization losses, and the infrared light is usually the reason for transmission losses. We can infer that the intensity reduction of these light regions leads to an increased match between the solar spectrum and the solar cell. This is the solar spectrum shaped by nature itself. Owing to the better match, the theoretical conversion efﬁciency for AM1.5G exceeds that for AM0. It should be noted that although the conversion efﬁciency is smaller for AM0, the theoretical output power under AM0 illumination exceeds that under AM1.5 illumination. Figure 6.5 is the graph in Fig. 6.4 including the semiconductor materials [2] that are actually used for solar cells. Because the single-junction solar cell conversion efﬁciency reaches its maximum value at Eg 1.3 eV, the semiconductor materials Si, InP, and GaAs are suited for this solar cell type. Fig. 6.5 Conversion efﬁciencies of single-junction solar cells based on different materials as calculated by the detailed balance model. Curve (a) is the result for illumination with AM0 and curve (b) that for AM1.5G 88 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies 6.2 Concentrator Solar Cell The solar cell conversion efﬁciencies in the previous section are all for solar cells that are directly exposed to sunlight like under open sky. In this section, we provide details about the operating principle and the conversion efﬁciency of a concentrator solar cell, which is a solar cell that is illuminated by concentrated sunlight. The concentrator solar cell is a solar cell type that aims at an increase of the conversion efﬁciency by collecting sunlight that would usually miss the solar cell surface. By employing lenses or mirrors, this light is focused on the solar cell surface and thus increases the solar power incident on the solar cell. The concentration of sunlight is essential for realizing solar cells with conversion efﬁciencies above 45%, in particular those aiming at 50%. Figure 6.6 shows the basic layout of a concentrator solar cell. Let us investigate how much the single-junction solar cell conversion efﬁciency increases upon concentrating the light. As noted above, the photon ﬂux incident on the solar cell increases by concentrating the sunlight. We shall use P ﬂux to denote the photon ﬂux of the solar black-body radiation spectrum that can be absorbed by the solar cell under concentrated sunlight per unit area and per unit solid angle. If we deﬁnetheconcentrationratioasX, P ﬂux canbewrittenasshowninEq.(6.7),i.e.,asthe product of X and the photon ﬂux Pﬂux deﬁned in Sect. 4.1. The latter is the photon ﬂux that can be absorbed by the single-junction solar cell under unconcentrated sunlight per unit area and per unit solid angle. P ﬂux  νg, Ts  = X Pﬂux  νg, Ts  (6.7) The increase of P ﬂux is accompanied by an increase in the generation rate of electronhole pairs. The generation rate of electronhole pairs for concentration of sunlight is denoted by F s and can be expressed using Eq. (6.7) and the deﬁnition of Fs in Eq. (4.4). Fig. 6.6 Basic layout of a concentrator solar cell 6.2 Concentrator Solar Cell 89 F s = P ﬂux  νg, Ts  π fω = X Pﬂux  νg, Ts  π fω = X Fs (6.8) Next, by employing Eqs. (4.32) and (6.8) we can represent the open-circuit voltage Vop as Vop = Vcln  fcF s Fc0 + 1  = Vcln  X fcFs Fc0 + 1  (6.9) Here, we must carefully examine approximation conditions satisfying Eq. (6.9), which has been derived by using the Boltzmann approximation. The Boltzmann approximation stands when |E Ef| kT in the FermiDirac function, which is used for calculating the density of electrons in the conduction band and holes in the valence band. As we discuss in Chap. 8, Eqs. (8.18) and (8.20) represent the electron distribution function in the conduction band and the hole distribution function in the valence band, respectively. However, under a high sunlight concentration, the quasi-Fermi levels of electrons and holes signiﬁcantly split and approach the edge of the conduction band and the valence band. Then, the assumption |E Ef| kT becomes no longer valid. In addition, in terms of recombination of electronhole pairs, so far we have only considered the spontaneous recombination in solar cells, which is only determined by the density of electrons in the conduction band and holes in the valence band (see Sect. 4.2). Conversely, in case the quasi-Fermi level approaches the band edge, the stimulated recombination should be also taken into account as well as the spontaneous recombination. Using the FermiDirac function without pursuing the Boltzmann approximation and considering the effect of stimulated recombination, the recombination rate of electronhole pairs Fc(V ) is given by using the so-called generalized Planck equation [3]. Fc(V ) = Pﬂux  νg, Tc, V   2π (6.10) Pﬂux  νg, Tc, V  =   νg 2 c2  ν2 exp hνeV kTc  1 dν (6.11) Equation (6.11) looks similar to Pﬂux  νg, Tc  of Eq. (4.3) in Sect. 4.1. The only difference is the term eV in the exponential of the denominator, so we use the similar notation Pﬂux  νg, Tc, V  . Equation (6.11) is a universal expression which is valid for any sunlight concentrations. Under a very high sunlight concentration, the voltage V in the integral function of Eq. (6.11) increases, and hv eV approaches to zero. 90 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies In this case, the Boltzmann approximation is inappropriate. In this chapter, we use Eq. (6.11) for calculating the recombination rate of electronhole pairs. By using Eq. (6.11), the relation between current and voltage in the steady-state condition of Eq. (4.21) can be modiﬁed to Eq. (6.12). I e = X Fs + Fc0 Fc(V ) + R(0) R(V ) I = e  X Fs + 1 fc (Fc0 Fc(V ))  I = e  X Fs + 2π fc  Pﬂux  νg, Tc, 0  Pﬂux  νg, Tc, V  (6.12) To calculate the open-circuit voltage Vop, we equate the right-hand side of Eq. (6.12) to zero. 0 = e  X Fs + 2π fc  Pﬂux  νg, Tc, 0  Pﬂux  νg, Tc, Vop  (6.13) As Vop in Eq. (6.13) cannot be solved analytically, the numerical calculation is necessary. Figure 6.7 shows the comparison of Vop calculated by using Eqs. (6.9) and (6.13) as a function of the concentration ratio at the band-gap energy of silicon (Si) (Eg,Si = 1.12 eV at room temperature). When the concentration ratio is below approximately 1000, two lines calculated by (a) the Boltzmann approximation and (b) the generalized Planck equation obey almost the same dependence. However, under the concentration ratio above approximately 1000, two lines start deviating. It is noted that the open-circuit voltage calculated by using the Boltzmann approx- imation exceeds the band gap of silicon. Of course, this result is unrealistic in the practical device operation, and using Eq. (6.13) instead of Eq. (6.9) is appropriate under X  1000. From Fig. 6.7, we also ﬁnd that the open-circuit voltage Vop established under concentration of sunlight (X  1) is larger than that for unconcentrated sunlight (X = 1). By concentrating the sunlight on the solar cell surface, the number of electronhole pairs generated by the sunlight increases. The enhanced open-circuit voltage is thus a result of the larger difference between the electron and the hole quasi-Fermi levels, which expresses the electromotive force due to the enhanced generation rate of electronhole pairs. As explained in Sect. 6.1, we can now calculate the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency since v and FF can be evaluated using the open-circuit voltage which includes the corrections for the concentration ratio X. Using Eq. (6.8), the concentration ratio X can be deﬁned as the ratio of the number of photons absorbed per unit time and unit area under concentrated sunlight to the number of photons absorbed per unit time and unit area under unconcentrated sunlight, that is, Eq. (6.14). 6.2 Concentrator Solar Cell 91 Fig. 6.7 Open-circuit voltages as a function of sunlight concentration ratio. Curve (a) adopts the Boltzmann approximation and curve (b) the generalized Planck equation. The dashed line indicates the band-gap energy of silicon X =  2π 0  θX 0 Pﬂux  νg, Ts, 0  cosθd  2π 0  θsun 0 Pﬂux  νg, Ts, 0  cosθd (6.14) The denominator on the right-hand side of Eq. (6.14) expresses the number of photons absorbed per unit time and unit area under unconcentrated sunlight. With respect to the planar solar cell in Fig. 6.8, this term contains the light with incident angles lying in the range from the normal direction (corresponding to 0) to the maximum angle θsun. Using D = 1.39  109 m for the diameter of the Sun and L = 149  109 m for the distance between Sun and Earth, θsun becomes 0.267. The numerator on the right-hand side of Eq. (6.14) is the photon ﬂux absorbed per unit area under concentrated sunlight. In case of the planar solar cell, this term contains the light with incident angles lying in the range from the normal direction (corresponding to 0) to the maximum angle θX. We can further simplify Eq. (6.14) with aid of the inﬁnitesimal solid angle given in Eq. (4.8), dω = sinθdθdϕ. X =  2π 0  θX 0 cosθsinθdθdφ  2π 0  θsun 0 cosθsinθdθdφ = 2π  θX 0 1 2sin2θdθ 2π  θsun 0 1 2sin2θdθ = 1 2[cos2θ]θX 0 1 2[cos2θ]θsun 0 = 1 cos2θθX 1 cos2θθsun = sin2θX sin2θsun 92 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Fig. 6.8 Spreading of the incident light cone, i.e., the solid angle in case of concentration of sunlight The maximum concentration ratio Xmax is reached if sunlight comes from all directions in the volume above the solar cell surface, that is, from a hemispherical region. This situation is similar to the consideration of the radiation from the solar cell itself (Fig. 4.2) and corresponds to θX = 90 where X becomes Xmax 45,900. When we use the AM data for the solar spectrum instead of the black-body radiation, we can calculate Vop by replacing the generation rate of electronhole pairs via sunlight Fs by the integrated photon ﬂux determined from the AM data. Here, it is noted that AM1.5D is employed instead of AM1.5G under the sunlight concentration conditions because AM1.5G includes light scattered in the sky. The theoretical conversion efﬁciency for the maximum concentration condition is shown in Fig. 6.9. From Fig. 6.9, we can conﬁrm that the conversion efﬁciency of a single-junction solar cell exceeds 40% for both concentrated AM0 and concentrated AM1.5D light (X = 45,900), and thus largely surpasses the conversion efﬁciency obtained without concentration of sunlight (X = 1). 6.3 Multi-junction Solar Cell The multi-junction solar cell is one of the architectures that have been investigated in order to overcome the theoretical conversion efﬁciency limit of the single-junction solar cell. To allow for an extended sensitivity region with respect to the solar spec- trum, it has a structure that contains multiple layers with different Eg, stacked in order from large to small Eg with the largest being at the front side (side of light incidence). Each layer is in fact a single-junction solar cell, also called subcell, and tunnel junctions are employed for the connection between the subcells. This structure absorbs the high-energy photons (short wavelength) in the upper layers, while the low-energy photons (long wavelength) are absorbed in the layers below. Therefore, 6.3 Multi-junction Solar Cell 93 Fig. 6.9 Detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency of a single-junction solar cell under concentrated sunlight obtained from the calculation using the AM data. Curve (a) is the result for concentrated AM0 light and curve (b) that for concentrated AM1.5D light sunlight is absorbed over a broad spectral range, transmission and thermalization losses are suppressed, and electronhole pairs are generated with high efﬁciency. The dual-junction type constitutes the simplest design, but by increasing the num- ber of junctions to three, four, or more junctions, an increased match with the solar spectrum is possible, which ultimately leads to efﬁciency improvement. On the other hand, there are still technical issues to be solved. Usually, the stacked layer structure is prepared by a multilayer crystal growth. Consequently, the multi- junction solar cell becomes rather thick. Unfortunately, a semiconductor with a dif- ferent band gap also implies a different lattice constant (roughly speaking, a crystal with a large lattice constant has a small Eg). The stacking of multiple semiconductor layers with different Eg therefore implies a stacking of semiconductor crystals with different lattice constants. Due to the resulting lattice mismatch, a large strain is built up near the heterointerface between two subcells (this region is also referred to as heterojunction) and it scales with the layer thickness. In the epitaxial growth, i.e., the layer-by-layer growth of ﬂat surfaces, both crystal lattices are connected properly. However, if the strain exceeds a certain threshold, the epitaxial growth will become impossible and accumulated strain energy is released by forming crystal dislocations. Such crystal dislocations are detrimental, because they constitute recombination center for carriers which reduces the quasi-Fermi-level separation. Consequently, a high-quality heterojunction requires a combination of semiconductors with small lattice mismatch. However, as mentioned above, there is a speciﬁc relation between the band gap and the lattice constant. Therefore, only a few materials systems are actually suited for the implementation in multi-junction solar cells. The common triple-junction solar cells employ either InGaP/GaAs/Ge or InGaP/GaAs/InGaAs for the top cell, middle cell, and bottom cell, respectively. These compound materi- als unfortunately use costly metals and require an expensive crystal growth method. Therefore, these compound semiconductor multi-junction solar cells are utilized in space applications, rather than in domestic electricity generation. However, recently, emerging techniques such as metamorphic epitaxial growth, epitaxial lift off, and 94 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies wafer-bonding have been accelerating the development of the multi-junction solar cells. We shall now calculate the conversion efﬁciency for the concrete examples of the dual-junction and triple-junction solar cells. First, consider the dual-junction solar cell with subcells named in order c1 and c2, starting from the incident light side. For this case, the currentvoltage relation provided in Eq. (4.21) can be rewritten as shown below. I c1 = eFc1 s + e fc  Fc1 c0 Fc1 c (V )  (6.15) I c2 = eFc2 s + e fc  Fc2 c0 Fc2 c (V )  (6.16) Additionally, we assume their band gaps being Ec1, Ec2 with Ec1  Ec2. Assume that the light with photon energy above Ec1 (wavelength below λc1) is completely absorbed in the top cell c1. Then, the bottom cell c2 absorbs the fraction of light that has an energy above Ec2 and passed cell c1 without being absorbed, i.e., the light with photon energies ranging from Ec2 to Ec1 (wavelengths ranging from λc2 to λc1). The rates Fc1 s and Fc2 s for electronhole pair generation via sunlight in the cells c1 and c2, respectively, are given by the following equations: Fc1 s = λc1  0 N(λ)dλ (6.17) Fc2 s = λc2  λc1 N(λ)dλ (6.18) Regarding the electronhole pair generation rate Fc(V ) due to the nonzero solar cell temperature, the Pﬂux  νg, Tc, V  employed so far was a function of the band gap, the solar cell temperature, and the voltage. But according to the present assumption regarding the absorption, the integration range for the interband transitions differs in each sample. Hence, we express Pﬂux as a function with an additional variable for the upper integration boundary and write Pﬂux  νg, νupper, Tc, V  . We deﬁne the rates of electronhole pair generation due to the nonzero solar cell temperature, Fc0 and Fc(V ), for each subcell by employing Eq. (4.4) for c1 and c2 and considering the new expression of Pﬂux  νg, νupper, Tc, V  . Fc1 c0 = Pﬂux(νc1, , Tc, 0)  2π (6.19) Fc1 c (V ) = Pﬂux(νc1, , Tc, V )  2π (6.20) Fc2 c0 = Pﬂux(νc2, νc1, Tc, 0)  2π (6.21) 6.3 Multi-junction Solar Cell 95 Fc2 c (V ) = Pﬂux(νc2, νc1, Tc, V )  2π (6.22) If we now place a perfect mirror at the back side of the tandem solar cell, Fc0 and Fc(V ) will be incident from the front surface only and its value becomes half. Fc1 c0 = Pﬂux(νc1, , Tc, 0)  π (6.23) Fc1 c (V ) = Pﬂux(νc1, , Tc, V )  π (6.24) Fc2 c0 = Pﬂux(νc2, νc1, Tc, 0)  π (6.25) Fc2 c (V ) = Pﬂux(νc2, νc1, Tc, V )  π (6.26) In the following, we determine the constraints for the current and the voltage that apply as a result of the series connection between the subcells. Because the two cells c1 and c2 in the tandem solar cell are connected by a tunnel junction, the current running through each cell has to be the same. This series constraint can be represented as Eq. (6.27). I total = I c1 = I c2 (6.27) Furthermore, the output voltage of the tandem solar cell device is the sum of the voltages for each cell, V total = V c1 + V c2 (6.28) For the actual calculation of the conversion efﬁciency, we have to determine the current I total and voltage V total that maximize the output power and simultaneously satisfy Eqs. (6.27) and (6.28). The computation results for the conversion efﬁciencies of tandem solar cells with various band-gap combinations are shown in Figs. 6.10 (for unconcentrated sunlight of AM1.5G) and 6.11 (for maximally concentrated sunlight of AM1.5D). The hor- izontal axis represents the band-gap energy Ec1 of the top cell c1, and the vertical axis shows the band-gap energy Ec2 of the bottom cell c2. The color image is the contour plot of the conversion efﬁciency. The calculation result for unconcentrated sunlight exhibits a maximum con- version efﬁciency of 45.4% for the band-gap combination Ec1 = 1.58 eV and Ec2 = 0.94 eV. The results for concentrated sunlight reach a maximum conver- sion efﬁciency of 59.9%, which is obtained at Ec1 = 1.44 eV, Ec2 = 0.70 eV. These calculation results largely exceed the conversion efﬁciencies evaluated in the above discussion on the single-junction solar cell; the tandem solar cell exceeds the SQ limit both with and without concentration (44.3 and 30.5%, respectively). In the following, we show the calculation results regarding the triple-junction solar cell. The calculation for the triple-junction solar cell can be performed in exactly 96 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Fig. 6.10 Conversion efﬁciency of the dual-junction solar cell under unconcentrated sunlight Fig. 6.11 Conversion efﬁciency of the dual-junction solar cell under maximally concentrated sunlight the same way as for the dual-junction design. The subcells are named in order c1, c2, and c3 starting from the front surface. The corresponding band-gap energies Ec1, Ec2, and Ec3 fulﬁll the condition Ec1  Ec2  Ec3. In this calculation, we assume the commonly used semiconductor germanium (Ge, with a band-gap energy Ec3 = 0.66 eV) for the bottom cell absorber layer. The calculation results for the conversion efﬁciencies of the triple-junction solar cell under 1 sun illumination (i.e., unconcentrated sunlight of AM1.5G) and maxi- mally concentrated sunlight of AM1.5D are shown in Figs. 6.12 and 6.13, respec- tively. The horizontal axis represents the band-gap energy Ec1 of subcell c1, and the vertical axis shows the band-gap energy Ec2 of subcell c2. The maximum con- version efﬁciency for unconcentrated sunlight is 50.3% for the band-gap combina- tion Ec1 = 1.76 eV, Ec2 = 1.18 eV, and Ec3 = 0.66 eV. The maximally con- centrated condition reaches a peak value of 66.4% for the band-gap combination Ec1 = 1.76 eV, Ec2 = 1.18 eV, and Ec3 = 0.66 eV. By increasing the number 6.3 Multi-junction Solar Cell 97 Fig. 6.12 Conversion efﬁciency of a triple-junction solar cell under 1 sun illumination. For the bottom cell, we assumed the commonly used Ge and thus performed the calculation for Ec3 = 0.66 eV Fig. 6.13 Conversion efﬁciency of a triple-junction solar cell for maximum concentration of sunlight. For the bottom cell, we assumed the commonly used Ge and thus performed the calculation for Ec3 = 0.66 eV of subcells from two to three, the conversion efﬁciency improved signiﬁcantly. The- oretically, the conversion efﬁciency increases further if we increase the number of junctions. However, as mentioned above, strain energy will accumulate upon growth of stacked semiconductor layers with different crystal lattice constants. If too many layers are grown, the strain energy exceeds the limit and crystal dislocations form. Therefore, the growth of stacked high-quality crystals is actually very difﬁcult. At present, the highest solar cell conversion efﬁciency is realized by a multi-junction solar cell. 98 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies 6.4 Intermediate-Band Solar Cell The intermediate-band solar cell (shown in Fig. 6.14) has a theoretical conversion efﬁciency that exceeds the SQ limit and represents an approach that is different from the tandem solar cell concept. Here, an artiﬁcial intermediate band is formed between the valence band and the conduction band. The intermediate-band solar cell design enables transitions from the conduction band to the intermediate band and from the intermediate band to the conduction band. Therefore, it can absorb photons that are lost through transmission in the conventional single pn junction. The intermediate-band solar cell is one of the popular solar cell architectures and was investigated from the viewpoint of detailed balance in the work Increasing the Efﬁciency of Ideal Solar Cells by Photon Induced Transitions at Intermediate Levels [4] by Antonio Luque and Antonio Marti of the Polytechnic University of Madrid, Spain. This work showed that the maximum theoretical conversion efﬁciency of this solar cell type is 63.1%. The intermediate-band solar cell has attracted attention because of its high conversion efﬁciency combined with the fact of being a solar cell type that can lift the restrictions imposed by the series connection in the multi- junction solar cells. In the tandem solar cells, pn junctions with different Eg are stacked in series. Therefore, the electricity generation is already strongly suppressed if one of the junctions in the stack is affected by altered illumination conditions like a reductionofacertainspectralpartofthelightonacloudydaybecauseofthescattering and absorption by the clouds. In this case, the performance of the whole device is affected because the current that ﬂows through the directly affected cell is reduced and becomes the bottleneck of the whole device, even if the other subcells work ﬁne. In contrast, the intermediate-band solar cell enables both a direct absorption of light via interband transitions and a stepwise absorption via the intermediate band. Sincebothabsorptionprocessesproceedinparallel,theintermediate-bandsolarcells electricity generation cannot be completely suppressed under clouded conditions as was the case for the multi-junction solar cells. We determine the conversion efﬁciency of this intermediate-band solar cell by adopting the scheme that was used to determine the efﬁciency limit satisfying the detailed balance principle. Fig. 6.14 Schematic of the intermediate-band solar cell. Because the conventional single-junction solar cell has only interband transitions between the conduction band and the valence band, photons with energies below Eg cannot be absorbed. On the other hand, by inserting an artiﬁcial intermediate bandbetweenthevalenceandtheconductionbands,photonswithenergiesbelowEg canbeabsorbed 6.4 Intermediate-Band Solar Cell 99 Because an additional band has to be considered, we need to distinguish different interband transition types in the equations. Therefore, we introduce the superscript VC to indicate transitions between the valence band and the conduction band, VI for those between the valence band and the intermediate band, and IC for those between the intermediate band and the conduction band. By applying this deﬁnition, the relationship between current and voltage in Eq. (4.21) can be written as follows: I VC = eFVC s + e fc  FVC c0 FVC c (V )  (6.29) Next, we have to analyze the absorption of the sunlight between these three bands. For simplicity, we assume that there is no overlap in the absorption of the solar spectrum and consider that the material with the larger band gap absorbs the sunlight sufﬁciently strong, which is similar to the case of the tandem solar cell. Using this condition, we can straightforwardly analyze the different rates of electronhole pair generation by the Sun, FVC s , FVI s , and FIC s . In Sect. 6.1, Fs was expressed as the following equation, which corresponds to the VC transition: FVC s = λEg  0 N(λ)dλ (6.30) If we deﬁne a frequency νVI and a wavelength λVI that correspond to the energy difference between valence band and intermediate band, the electronhole pair gen- eration rate FVI s , which is that involving transitions between the valence band and the intermediate band, can be represented as FVI s = λVI  λEg N(λ)dλ (6.31) Here, we considered that the energy difference between the valence band maxi- mum and the quasi-Fermi level of the intermediate band is larger than that between the intermediate band and the conduction band minimum. Similarly, the electron hole pair generation rate for the transitions between the intermediate band and the conduction band, FIC s , can be represented as Eq. (6.32) by deﬁning the frequency νIC corresponding to the energy difference between the quasi-Fermi level of the intermediate band and the conduction band minimum. FIC s = λIC  λVI N(λ)dλ (6.32) Due to the connection of the three energy gaps as shown in Fig. 6.14, the following condition holds for the frequencies deﬁned above: 100 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies νg = νVI + νIC (6.33) Next, consider the electronhole pair generation rate due to the ﬁnite solar cell temperature. Pﬂux  νg, Tc, V  in Sect. 6.2 for the VC transition was a function of the band gap, the solar cell temperature, and the voltage. However, due to the assumption regarding the absorption, the integration range differs for each of the three band transitions. Therefore, we add a variable for the upper integration boundary and express the incoming photon ﬂux by Pﬂux  νg, , Ts, V  . The electronhole pair generation rates of FVC c0 and FVC c (V ) involving transitions between the valence band and the conduction band are thus written as shown in Eqs. (6.34) and (6.35). FVC c0 = Pﬂux  νg, , Tc, 0   2π (6.34) FVC c (V ) = Pﬂux  νg, , Tc, V   2π (6.35) If we now assume that a perfect mirror is placed at the back side of the planar solar cell slab, the Fc0 and Fc(V ) become half because the black-body radiation at Tc can only strike the solar cell from the front. Hence, the Fc0 and Fc(V ) for the three band transitions can be written as shown below. FVC c0 = Pﬂux  νg, , Tc, 0   π (6.36) FVC c (V ) = Pﬂux  νg, , Tc, V   π (6.37) FVI c0 = Pﬂux  νVI, νg, Tc, 0   π (6.38) FVI c (V ) = Pﬂux  νVI, νg, Tc, V   π (6.39) FIC c0 = Pﬂux(νIC, νVI, Tc, 0)  π (6.40) FIC c (V ) = Pﬂux(νIC, νVI, Tc, V )  π (6.41) Based on the above considerations, let us proceed with the derivation of the relationship between voltage and current in the intermediate-band solar cell. First, we shall focus on the conduction band as shown in Fig. 6.15. In the detailed balance model with fc being set to unity, the electronhole pairs are generated by radiation only and non-radiative processes are not considered. Accordingly, we only need to consider the balance between the following four rates: ➀The electronhole pair generation rate involving transitions between the valence band and the conduction band, ➁The rate for radiative recombination between electrons located in the conduction band and holes in the valence band, 6.4 Intermediate-Band Solar Cell 101 Fig. 6.15 Balance between carrier generation and recombination with respect to the conduction band ➂The electronhole pair generation rate involving transitions between the inter- mediate band and the conduction band, ➃And the rate for radiative recombination between electrons located in the con- duction band and holes in the intermediate band. The connection of these transitions and the total current I total that can actually be extracted is described by Eq. (6.42). I total = 12+ 34 = I VC + I IC (6.42) 12is the same currentvoltage relation as that for the conventional single- junction solar cell. Regarding the term 34, this expression simply employs different quasi-Fermi levels and can be therefore interpreted as currentvoltage rela- tion for transitions starting from the intermediate band, instead of the valence band. Consequently, the total current I total that can be extracted from the conduction band is the sum of the current extracted due to the transitions from the valence band, I VC, and that due to transitions from the intermediate band, I IC. For an expression of the current I IC, we have to deﬁne a new quasi-Fermi level. If we use Vi to describe the quasi-Fermi level of the intermediate band (EI = eVi), the current I IC can be represented as I IC = eFIC s + e fc  FIC c0 FIC c  V VC = eFIC s + e fc  FIC c0 FIC c (Vn Vi)  (6.43) Here, Vn describes the quasi-Fermi level of the electrons, i.e., eVn = Efe. The Vp used further below is the quasi-Fermi level of the hole (eVp = Efh). Now, we focus on the balance in the intermediate band as shown in Fig. 6.16. Here, no current can be extracted (since no electrode is connected to the intermediate band), and hence the number of electron transitions between valence band and intermediate 102 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Fig. 6.16 Electron transitions with respect to the intermediate band. Because no current can be extracted from the intermediate band, the electron transitions ➂➅require charge conservation; i.e., the current deﬁned by ➂➃has to be matched with that deﬁned by ➄➅ band must equal that between intermediate band and conduction band. The numbers in Fig. 6.16 correspond to ➂The electronhole pair generation rate involving transitions between the inter- mediate band and the conduction band, ➃The rate of radiative recombination between electrons located in the conduction band and holes in the intermediate band, ➄The electronhole pair generation rate involving transitions between the valence band and the intermediate band, ➅And the rate of radiative recombination between electrons located in the inter- mediate band and holes in the valence band. Expressed as equation, the above condition for electron conservation reads 34= 56 (6.44) which means I IC = I VI (6.45) If we interpret the intermediate-band solar cell in terms of two solar cells (where one has a band gap equivalent to the energy difference between EI and the valence band maximum EV and the other one has a band gap equivalent to the energy dif- ference between the conduction band minimum EC and EI), the current extracted from both solar cells has to be the same; i.e., they are current matched as shown in Eq. (6.45). Additionally, the sum of the voltages of the two serial solar cells introduced above is V VI + V IC = Vn Vi + Vi Vp = Vn Vp = V VC (6.46) 6.4 Intermediate-Band Solar Cell 103 Therefore, the voltage of a third solar cell with a band-gap energy deﬁned by EC EV is equal to the sum of the voltages of the two serial solar cells in the equivalent circuit interpretation. Using Eqs. (6.42), (6.45), and (6.46), the intermediate-band solar cell can be rep- resented as an equivalent circuit consisting of the three solar cells shown in Fig. 6.17. The VC cell is the solar cell with a band-gap energy EC EV, the VI cell is that with a band-gap energy EI EV, and the IC cell is the solar cell with a band-gap energy EC EI. We proceed with the calculation by considering these three independent solar cells under electronhole pair generations that are given with Eqs. (6.31)(6.33) and (6.36)(6.41). For the actual calculation of the conversion efﬁciency, we have to determine the current I total and the voltage V VC whose product (corresponding to the output power) is maximized and simultaneously satisfy Eqs. (6.42) and (6.46), respectively. The calculation results for the intermediate-band solar cell conversion efﬁciencies obtained using the above procedure are shown with the contour plots in Figs. 6.18 and 6.19. The horizontal axis shows the band-gap energy Eg = EC EV, and the vertical axis shows the energy gap EI EV. Figure 6.18 is the calculation result for AM1.5G without concentration of sunlight. The maximum conversion efﬁciency of 48.2% is obtained for a band-gap energy of 2.1 eV between the conduction and the valence band, and an energy gap of 0.75 eV between the conduction band minimum and the intermediate-band quasi-Fermi level. Figure 6.19 is the calculation result for AM1.5D under maximum concentration (Xmax = 45,900). The maximum conversion efﬁciency is 67.7% for the combination Eg = 1.93 eV and EI EV = 0.70 eV. This data shows that for concentrator solar cells, a larger improvement of the efﬁciency can be obtained with a smaller band gap. Thereadermightwonderhowsuchanintermediatebandbetweenthesemiconduc- tor band gaps can actually be prepared. Since the technique for the intermediate-band preparation is still under development, we only provide a brief introduction on the Fig. 6.17 Equivalent circuit of the intermediate-band solar cell. The VC cell is the solar cell with a band gap corresponding to the energy difference between valence band maximum and conduction band minimum, the VI cell is that with a band gap corresponding to the energy difference between the valence band maximum and the intermediate-band quasi-Fermi level, and the IC cell is the solar cell with a band gap corresponding to the energy difference between the intermediate-band quasi- Fermi level and the conduction band minimum. These three solar cells have to obey the restrictions implied by this equivalent circuit 104 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Fig. 6.18 Conversion efﬁciency of the intermediate-band solar cell (AM1.5G, 1 sun). A maximum conversion efﬁciency of 49.4% is reached for a band-gap energy of 2.43 eV between the conduction band and the valence band, and an energy gap of 1.49 eV between the valence band maximum and the intermediate-band quasi-Fermi level Fig. 6.19 Conversion efﬁciency of the intermediate-band solar cell (AM1.5D, maximum concentration). A maximum conversion efﬁciency of 67.6% is reached for a band-gap energy of 1.91 eV between the conduction band and the valence band, and an energy gap of 1.22 eV between the valence band maximum and the intermediate-band quasi-Fermi level representative methods that are considered presently, e.g., utilization of quantum structures with nanoscale sizes and approaches based on impurities. Structures that possess quantum mechanically discretized energy levels are called quantum structures. Usually, this discretization appears as a result of conﬁning electrons or holes spatially within structures that possess extensions on the order of nanometers in at least one direction. The quantum structures with small sizes on the nanoscale are also called nanostructures. We can classify them into quantum wells with a two-dimensional degree of freedom, quantum wires with a one-dimensional degree of freedom, and quantum dots without any degree of freedom. The quantum wells are widely used in devices like semiconductor lasers and photodetectors. The intermediate-band solar cell concept requires optical transitions from the intermedi- ate band to the conduction band. It is important to note that normally incident light cannot induce optical transitions from the intermediate band formed by a quantum 6.4 Intermediate-Band Solar Cell 105 well to the conduction band since such an absorption is forbidden according to the so-called optical selection rule. Furthermore, even under oblique incidence of the light, Snells law implies that the light inside the solar cell will be refracted toward the normal direction because the refractive index of the material used for the solar cell is larger than that of air. Fortunately, the selection rule is relaxed in case of the quan- tum dot structure, and therefore the optical transition from the intermediate level formed by the quantum dot to the conduction band is possible. However, another problem arises for the quantum dot structure. Since it possesses a conﬁnement in all three directions, the energy level of each quantum dot is independent (and even varies slightly due to imperfect growth). Therefore, a band cannot be established at low quantum dot densities. Consequently, the neighboring quantum dots are brought closer together to form a band (this concept is explained in Chap. 8). The resulting structure is the so-called quantum dot superlattice [5]. InAs is frequently used as material for quantum dots, since its crystal growth can be well controlled. On the other hand, representative materials that employ impurity levels for the intermediate band are, for example, Si doped with indium (In) [6], GaNAs formed by doping of GaAs with nitrogen (N) [7], or ZnTeO prepared by doping ZnTe with oxygen (O) [8]. Because these materials systems contain impurities whose crys- tallographic and electronic properties are strongly different from those of the host semiconductor, they are termed highly mismatched alloys. All of them employ the energy level that is formed in the band gap of the host semiconductor by the impurity as the intermediate band. 6.5 Two-Step Photon Up-Conversion Solar Cell In the intermediate-band solar cell, two-step photon up-conversion process following the absorption of two below-gap photons can widely cover the solar spectrum and produce additional photocurrent without degrading the photovoltage. Such two-step photoexcitation is known to occur at heterointerfaces. The concept of the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell [9] is schematically shown in Fig. 6.20. The two- step photon up-conversion solar cell is a single-junction solar cell consisting of a wide-gap semiconductor and a narrow-gap semiconductor. Sunlight shines on the n-layer (left-hand side of Fig. 6.20). High-energy photons are absorbed in the wide- gap semiconductor, and generated electrons and holes drift in opposite directions and reach the n-type wide-gap semiconductor and the p-type narrow-gap semiconductor, respectively. On the other hand, below-gap photons of the wide-gap semiconductor pass through the wide-gap semiconductor without absorption and excite the narrow- gap semiconductor. The photogenerated electrons in the narrow-gap semiconductor drift toward the wide-gap semiconductor/ narrow-gap semiconductor heterointerface andareobstructedthere,whilephotogeneratedholesreachthep-layer.Theobstructed electrons at the heterointerface are prevented from recombining with holes because they are separated in the narrow-gap semiconductor. The dense accumulation of electrons at the heterointerface enables efﬁcient intraband optical absorption, and 106 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Fig. 6.20 Schematic band lineup of the two-step up-conversion solar cell electrons excited at the conduction band offset of heterointerface are collected at the n-type wide-gap semiconductor. We deal with similar calculation framework and procedure to that of the intermediate-band solar cell except for the valence band offset at the heterointer- face. The relationship between current and voltage of the wide-gap semiconductor, I WGS and V WGS, can be written by using the generation rate of electronhole pair by the Sun FWGS s , the generation rate of electronhole pair under the thermal equi- librium FWGS c0 , and the recombination rate of electronhole pair under the sunlight illumination FWGS c  V WGS . I WGS = eFWGS s + e fc  FWGS c0 FWGS c  V WGS (6.47) FWGS s = λEWGS  0 N(λ)dλ (6.48) FWGS c0 = Pﬂux(νWGS, , Tc, 0)  π (6.49) FWGS c  V WGS = Pﬂux  νWGS, , Tc, V WGS  π (6.50) Here, λEWGS corresponds to the band gap of wide-gap semiconductor. Similarly, the relationship between current and voltage of the narrow-gap semi- conductor, I NGS and V NGS, is given by I NGS = eFNGS s + e fc  FNGS c0 FNGS c  V NGS (6.51) FNGS s = λENGS  λEWGS N(λ)dλ (6.52) 6.5 Two-Step Photon Up-Conversion Solar Cell 107 FNGS c0 = Pﬂux(νNGS, νWGS, Tc, 0)  π (6.53) FNGS c  V NGS = Pﬂux  νNGS, νWGS, Tc, V NGS  π (6.54) Here, λENGS corresponds to the band gap of narrow-gap semiconductor. Next, we consider the generation rate of electronhole pair occurring at the con- duction band offset at the heterointerface. Although the generation rate, i.e., pho- toexcitation at the heterointerface, is considered to be weak as compared to that in the interband transition in the bulk region, we assume unity absorptivity for the intra- band transition at the heterointerface to calculate the efﬁciency limit of the two-step photon up-conversion solar cells. The efﬁciency considering the partial absorptivity is discussed in the end of this section. In case of unity absorptivity, the generation rate of electronhole pair at the heterointerface F C s is given by F C s = λE C  λENGS N(λ)dλ (6.55) Here, λE C corresponds to the conduction band offset at the heterointerface. The generation rate of electronhole pair under the thermal equilibrium can be written by the following: F C c0 = Pﬂux(ν C, νNGS, Tc, 0)  π (6.56) Similarly, the recombination rate of electronhole pair under the sunlight illumi- nation is given by F C c  V C = Pﬂux  ν C, νNGS, Tc, V C  π (6.57) The relationship between current and voltage of the wide-gap semiconductor, I WGS and V WGS, can be given by I C = eF C s + e fc  F C c0 F C c  V C (6.58) The total current I total is given by the current due to the transition in the wide-gap semiconductor I WGS and that in the narrow-gap semiconductor I NGS which has to match with the current I C generating at the heterointerface: I total = I WGS + I NGS (6.59) I NGS = I C (6.60) 108 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies In addition, the relationship of the band gaps and the quasi-Fermi levels is shown in Fig. 6.21 which leads to the following equations: EWGS = ENGS + E C + E V (6.61) V total = V WGS = V NGS + V C (6.62) The total electrical power generated in the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell is obtained by a product of V total and I total. Figure 6.22 shows the calculated open-circuit voltage VOC, as a function of sun- light concentration ratio at various E C-to-E V ratios. Here, we choose EWGS and ENGS of 2.0 and 1.6 eV, respectively. In Fig. 6.22, the slopes of VOC for the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell are slightly steeper than that of the single-junction solar cell at lower sunlight concentrations, which arises from the voltage boost effect V C caused by the two-step photon up-conversion occurring at the heterointerface. Athigherconcentrations,allslopescoincidewiththatofthesingle-junctionsolarcell. The calculated voltage boost V C at the heterointerface at each E C-to-E V ratio is also shown in Fig. 6.22. With the increase in solar concentration, V C increases and ﬁnally reaches E C. As shown in Fig. 6.22, once V C saturates, the slope of VOC becomes small. At lower concentrations, the increases in V NGS and V C contribute to the increase in VOC. Conversely, at higher concentrations, only the increase in V NGS drives the increase in VOC, resulting in the shallow slope. Figure 6.23 presents calculation results of the conversion efﬁciency as a function of EWGS under AM1.5G illumination without sunlight concentration at different E C-to-E V ratios. For comparison, the results of the intermediate-band solar cell and the single-junction solar cell as a function of ECV or Eg are also shown. In this calculation, ENGS is optimized to maximize the efﬁciency at each EWGS. When EWGS is small, the calculated efﬁciency approaches to that of the single-junction solar cell, because the band discontinuity of E C becomes small. The efﬁciency of the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell increases with EWGS. Then, the calculated efﬁciency curve reaches the maximum. With the increase in E C, the optimum EWGS exhibiting the maximum increases and its peak efﬁciency decreases. The efﬁciency curve given Fig. 6.21 Notations used in the calculation of the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell 6.5 Two-Step Photon Up-Conversion Solar Cell 109 Fig. 6.22 Open-circuit voltage VOC and voltage boost occurring at the heterointerfaces V C as a function of the sunlight concentration ratio under AM1.5D illumination. Curves (a), (b), and (c) are VOC for the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell with E C-to-E V ratios of 1:0, 3:2, and 2:3, respectively. Curve (d) is VOC for the single-junction solar cell with the band-gap energy of 1.6 eV. Curves (e), (f), and (g) are V C for the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell with E C-to-E V ratios of 1:0, 3:2, and 2:3, respectively Fig. 6.23 Conversion efﬁciency of single-junction solar cell and two-step photon up-conversion solar cell as a function of band-gap energy Eg or EWGS under AM1.5G illumination without sunlight concentration. Curve (a) is the result for single-junction solar cell. Curves (b), (c), and (d) are that for the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell with E C-to-E V ratios of 1:0, 4:1, and 3:2, respectively. Curve (b) is identical to that for the intermediate-band solar cell at E V = 0 is identical to that of the intermediate-band solar cell. As the increase in E V causes voltage loss at the heterointerface, the optimum EWGS tends to become wide. Figures 6.24 and 6.25 present the contour maps of the conversion efﬁciencies as functions of EWGS and ENGS at E C-to-E V ratio of 3:2. Figure 6.24 is the 110 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Fig. 6.24 Conversion efﬁciency of the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell (AM1.5G, 1 sun) at E C-to-E V ratio of 3:2. A maximum conversion efﬁciency of 46.4% is reached for EWGS of 3.13 eV and ENGS of 1.58 eV Fig. 6.25 Conversion efﬁciency of the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell (AM1.5D, maximum concentration) at E C-to-E V ratio of 3:2. A maximum conversion efﬁciency of 63.4% is reached for EWGS of 2.53 eV and ENGS of 1.38 eV calculation result for AM1.5G without concentration of sunlight. The maximum conversion efﬁciency of 46.4% is obtained at EWGS of 3.13 eV and ENGS of 1.58 eV. Figure 6.25 shows the result for AM1.5D under maximum concentration (Xmax = 45,900). The maximum conversion efﬁciency is 63.4% at the combination EWGS of 2.53 eV and ENGS of 1.38 eV. As mentioned above, when E V equals to zero, the contour maps become identical to that of the intermediate-band solar cell shown in Figs. 6.18 and 6.19. As mentioned at the beginning of this section, the generation rate at the heteroin- terface is generally weak compared with that of bulk material in the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell. On the other hand, the generation rate via the intermediate band in the intermediate-band solar cell is also generally weak because the quantum structures or highly mismatched alloys have lower density of states. Here, we intro- duce a fraction of the incident radiation absorbed by the solar cell or absorptivity 6.5 Two-Step Photon Up-Conversion Solar Cell 111 a. The absorptivity spectra in the intermediate-band solar cell and two-step photon up-conversion solar cell are shown in Fig. 6.26. We assumed that the interband transitions in the bulk materials have unity absorp- tivity, and the transitions via the intermediate band in the intermediate-band solar cell (EV EI and EI EC) and the photon up-conversion transition at the het- erointerface in the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell have partial absorptivity. The introduction of the absorptivity modiﬁes the equations for the intermediate-band solar cell as follows: FVI s = a  λVI  λEg N(λ)dλ Fig. 6.26 Absorptivity spectra of a the intermediate-band solar cell and b the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell (a) (b) 112 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies FIC s = a  λIC  λVI N(λ)dλ I IC = eFIC s + a  e fc  FIC c0 FIC c  V IC It should be noted the absorptivity affects not only the generation rates but also the radiative recombination rates. In the same manner, the equations for the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell are modiﬁed as follows: F C s = a  λE C  λENGS N(λ)dλ I C = eF C s + a  e fc  F C c0 F C c  V C Figure 6.27 presents the absorptivity dependence of the limiting conversion efﬁ- ciency of the intermediate-band solar cell and two-step photon up-conversion solar cell under AM1.5G illumination without concentration of sunlight. Here, the band- gap energies are globally optimized under the following conditions: (i) EIV ECV/2 for the intermediate-band solar cell and ENGS EWGS/2 for the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell, and (ii) ECI and E C are larger than 0.3 eV which is the lowest energy in the AM data, for the intermediate-band solar cell and two-step photon up-conversion solar cell, respectively. Curves (a) and (b) are the results for the intermediate-band solar cell and the two- step photon up-conversion solar cell for E C-to-E V ratio of 1:0, respectively. The conversion efﬁciencies for curves (a) and (b) are identical at unity absorptivity as discussed in Fig. 6.23. Conversely, the conversion efﬁciencies have different values Fig. 6.27 Limiting conversion efﬁciency as a function of the absorptivity (AM1.5G). Curve (a) is the result for the intermediate-band solar cell, curve (b) that for the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell for E C-to-E V ratio of 1:0, and curve (c) the result for the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell for E C-to-E V ratio of 3:2 6.5 Two-Step Photon Up-Conversion Solar Cell 113 at partial absorptivity due to the different absorptivity spectra shown in Fig. 6.26. The conversion efﬁciency in curve (b) is larger than that in curve (a) for almost all absorptivities because of unity absorptivity for the interband transition in the narrow- gap semiconductor. Curve (c) is the result for the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell for E C-to-E V ratio of 3:2. As the ﬁnite E V causes voltage loss at the heterointerface,theconversionefﬁciencyincurve(c)islowerthanthatincurve(b)for all absorptivities. On the other hand, the conversion efﬁciency in curve (c) is higher than that in curve (a) for the absorptivity in the range of 2585%. These results indicate the superiority of the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell compared with the intermediate-band solar cell at partial absorptivity. On the other hand, the conversion efﬁciencies in curves (a)(c) in Fig. 6.27 cor- respond to the SQ limit in Fig. 6.5 at zero absorptivity. The conversion efﬁciencies initially decrease from the SQ limit with an increase in the absorptivity, because the intermediate band and narrow-gap semiconductor act as the radiative recombination channel for the intermediate-band solar cell and two-step photon up-conversion solar cell, respectively. These initial decreases in the conversion efﬁciency from the SQ limit can be eliminated by concentrating the incident radiation. Figure 6.28 presents the concentration ratio dependence of the limiting conversion efﬁciency at the absorp- tivity of 50% under AM1.5D illumination. The conversion efﬁciency monotonically increases with an increase in the sunlight concentration and reaches 50% in the intermediate-band solar cell at 6500-suns illumination and in the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell at 250 and 4700-suns illumination for E C-to-E V ratios of 1:0 and 3.2, respectively. Fig. 6.28 Limiting conversion efﬁciency at the absorptivity of 50% as a function of the concentration ratio (AM1.5D). Curve (a) is the result for the intermediate-band solar cell, curve (b) that for the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell for E C-to-E V ratio of 1:0, and curve (c) the result for the two-step photon up-conversion solar cell for E C-to-E V ratio of 3:2 114 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies 6.6 Solar Cells with Spectral Converters In order to improve the solar cell conversion efﬁciency, we have to make best use of the sunlight, which broadly distributes in the range from the ultraviolet to the infrared. The tandem solar cell and the intermediate-band solar cell analyzed in Sects. 6.3 and 6.4 enabled an improvement of the conversion efﬁciency by a redesign of the solar cell architecture in accordance with the solar spectrum. In that sense, the solar cells with spectral converters do the opposite. Instead of redesigning the solar cell architecture, they allow us to improve the conversion efﬁciency by reshaping the solar spectrum and match it with the solar cells speciﬁc requirement. We can classify the solar cells with spectral converters into two types, that is, those that reduce the transmission losses by converting several low-energy photons into a high-energy photon via up-conversion, and those that reduce the thermaliza- tion losses by converting a high-energy photon into several low-energy photons via down-conversion. The conversion is performed by some external device and not by the solar cell itself. The intermediate-band solar cell actually uses the up-conversion process realized by its internal structure; i.e., it absorbs two photons with frequencies νVI and νIC to generate an electron with frequency νVC = νg via the intermediate band. In this section, we calculate for the conversion efﬁciency that can be realized by a solar cell with a spectral converter that employs down-conversion. Consider a single-junction solar cell with a down-conversion layer in front of the cell as shown in Fig. 6.29. For the solar spectrum, we shall use AM1.5G without concentration of sunlight. Further, assume that the band-gap energy of the down- conversion layer is 2Eg with Eg being the band-gap energy of the single-junction solar cell. The photons among the incident sunlight with energy above 2Eg are absorbed by the down-conversion layer, and the photons with energy below 2Eg are transmitted by the down-conversion layer and reach the solar cell. The photons absorbed in the down-conversion layer undergo a wavelength conversion with energy conversion efﬁciency ηDC, and we assume that all photons that have been converted to longer wavelengths fall onto the solar cell. In the simple geometrical arrangement shown in Fig. 6.29, it is difﬁcult to realize such a perfect illumination of the solar cell that includes all converted photons, because the up-conversion layer equally emits photons into both directions, toward the solar cell and toward the Sun. For the sake of simplicity, we shall consider that there exists some technique that allows us to focus all photons that were converted to longer wavelengths onto the solar cell. In case of ηDC = 100%, nothing special occurs since the n photons with energy above 2Eg that are incident on the down-conversion layer simply loose a part of the energy and exactly n photons are emitted from the down-conversion layer as photons with energy Eg, which enter the solar cell. In case that ηDC equals 200%, each photon is split into two photons with half energy (Eg). If n photons with energy above 2Eg enter the down-conversion layer, the resulting number of photons emitted from the down-conversion layer becomes 2n. Since these are absorbed by the solar cell, the energy that would have been lost by thermalization in the semiconductor can now be used more effectively and result in a larger current. If a signiﬁcant number of 6.6 Solar Cells with Spectral Converters 115 Fig. 6.29 A schematic for a solar cell with a spectral converter that employs down-conversion photons with energy above 3Eg are incident on a conversion layer with ηDC = 300%, a further pronounced increase in the efﬁciency can be expected. In any case, if all photons emitted by the down-conversion layer can be absorbed by the single-junction solar cell, we can expect a positive effect as long as ηDC is above 100%. Intensive investigations are being performed to realize such a down-conversion using rare earth ions [10]. The key element in the idea of reshaping the solar spectrum using down-conversion is to increase the number of photons incident on the solar cell by exploiting the photon excess energy. Let us proceed with the derivation of the conversion efﬁciency for the device in Fig. 6.29. If we apply the idea explained in Sect. 6.1, the number of photons absorbed in the down-conversion layer can be represented by the following integral: λ2Eg  0 N(λ)dλ Further, the number of photons that are transmitted as is by the down-conversion layer and absorbed in the solar cell can be described by the integral shown below. λEg  λ2Eg N(λ)dλ By using the energy conversion efﬁciency ηDC, the number of photons that pass the down-conversion layer and are eventually absorbed by the solar cell is thus ηDC λ2Eg  0 N(λ)dλ + λEg  λ2Eg N(λ)dλ 116 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies In Sect. 3.4, we assumed an electronhole pair generation efﬁciency ts = 1 for photons with energy  Eg. In this case, the rate of electronhole pair generation by sunlight, Fs, can be written as Eq. (6.63). Fs = ηDC λ2Eg  0 N(λ)dλ + λEg  λ2Eg N(λ)dλ (6.63) The conversion efﬁciency of a solar cell with a spectral converter that employs down-conversion can be calculated in the same way as performed for the single- junction solar cell explained in Sect. 6.1. Therefore, we employ Eq. (5.20) to calculate the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency. η = u  νg, Ts   v  xg, xc, f   FF (5.20) First, we calculate the conversion efﬁciency u for the ideal solar cell under the conditions outlined above. By expressing u with the right-hand side of Eq. (6.63), we obtain Eq. (6.64). u  Eg(λ)  = hνg  ηDC  λ2Eg 0 N(λ)dλ +  λEg λ2Eg N(λ)dλ    0 N(λ)  hν dλ  100 (6.64) Next, we determine V op by using Eq. (4.32). Substituting Eq. (6.63) for the term fωπ Pﬂux  νg, Ts  in Eq. (4.32) leads to Eq. (6.65), which is the open-circuit voltage V op that accounts for the down-conversion. Vop = Vc ln  fc ηDC  λ2Eg 0 N(λ)dλ +  λEg λ2Eg N(λ)dλ 2π Pﬂux  νg, Tc    (6.65) As explained in Sect. 6.1, since v  xg, xc, f  and FF can be evaluated with this corrected open-circuit voltage, we can calculate the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency. In Fig. 6.30, we show the conversion efﬁciency (AM1.5G, 1 sun) of a single- junction solar cell with a spectral converter that employs down-conversion. Below we provide an ordered list of the relationships that are used for this calculation. u  Eg(λ)  = hνg  ηDC  λ2Eg 0 N(λ)dλ +  λEg λ2Eg N(λ)dλ    0 N(λ)  hν dλ  100 (6.64) v  xg, xc, f  Vop Vg = Vc Vg ln  fc ηDC  λ2Eg 0 N(λ)dλ +  λEg λ2Eg N(λ)dλ 2π 2k3T 3c h3c2    xg/xc x2dx exp(x)1   6.6 Solar Cells with Spectral Converters 117 Fig. 6.30 Conversion efﬁciency of a solar cell under 1 sun illumination (X = 1) with a spectral converter that employs down-conversion for different ηDC. Curve (a) is the result for ηDC = 200%, curve (b) that for ηDC = 150%, and curve (c) the result for ηDC = 100% (detailed balance limit) xg = Eg/kTs xc = Tc/Ts (4.344.37), (6.65) FF = I(Vmax)Vmax IshVop = z2 m {1 + zm exp(zm)}{zm + ln(1 + zm)} (5.19) zop = Vop Vc = zm + ln(1 + zm) (5.105.11) Here, we assumed T s = 6000 K for the temperature of the Sun, T c = 300 K for that of the solar cell, and f = 1.09105 ( fc = 1, fω = 2.18105). For the sake of completeness, we note that λEg is the wavelength corresponding to the band-gap energy, N(λ) is the incident photon ﬂux per unit area and unit wavelength, and ηDC is the energy conversion efﬁciency of the down-conversion layer. From Fig. 6.30, we ﬁnd that the conversion efﬁciency reaches 40.5% for a solar cell with Eg = 0.94 eV. This is a conversion efﬁciency increase of about 8% compared to the maximum theoretical conversion efﬁciency of 32.7% for the single-junction solar cell analyzed in Sect. 6.1. The output voltage of the solar cell with the spectral converter stays the same, but due to the down-conversion of the high-energy photons the current yield is increased, which enhances the conversion efﬁciency. According to the above result, a semiconductor with a band gap near 0.94 eV is most appropriate for this type of solar cell. Hence, Si with Eg 1.1 eV is suited for implementation in solar cells with spectral converters that employ down-conversion. Intheabove,weconsideredtheeffectiveutilizationoftheexcessenergyofphotons by photon splitting. In the same way, we can also imagine that a photon with excess energy generates more than one electronhole pair upon being absorbed inside the solar cell. Through recent investigations, it became evident that this phenomenon can efﬁciently occur in semiconductor nanostructures [11]. 118 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies 6.7 Inﬂuence of the Weather In the discussions so far, we considered that the Sun shines brightly; i.e., there is not a single cloud that interferes with the rays falling from space onto the Earths ground. However, not all days are clear, and when the days of the year pass we encounter cloudy and rainy weather, or even snow. In order to design a solar cell structure that meets the requirements imposed by the weather on a speciﬁc site where the solar cell will be installed, we have to clarify the inﬂuence of the weather on the solar cells conversion efﬁciency and the output power. On a cloudy or rainy day, the solar cells generated amount of electricity decreases because the intensity of the sunlight is reduced. In this section, we calculate the conversion efﬁciency and the output power that are obtained on a cloudy day. By comparing them with the calculation results for AM1.5 which were elaborated in the previous sections, we shall investigate how the solar cell characteristics depend on the weather condition. On a cloudy day, the amount of light reaching the Earths ground is reduced because the light from the Sun is partially blocked by clouds. An example for a solar spectrum on a cloudy day is shown in Fig. 6.31. The AM1.5G spectrum is also plotted for comparison. This irradiance data shown here is obtained from the spectrum modeler SPCTRAL2 [12] provided by the Electricity, Resources, and Building Systems Integration Center of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL),USA.AlthoughSPCTRAL2isamodelerthatevaluatesthesolarspectrum reaching the Earths ground by using parameters for the atmospheric condition, both the atmosphere and the clouds are an accumulation of small particles. In other words, the inﬂuence of the clouds on the solar spectrum is similar to that of the atmosphere. Therefore, in this section we approximate the cloud condition by an atmosphere that was calculated by SPCTRAL2 for this purpose. Considering a spectrum shown in Fig. 6.31, the integrated irradiance within 03000 nm is 58 W/m2 which is about 17 times smaller than the corresponding value for AM1.5G; i.e., compared to AM1.5G, the total available power of the sunlight on a cloudy day is reduced by 94%. In order to compare the relative shapes of the solar spectrum on a cloudy day and the AM1.5G spectrum, we rescale the cloudy day spectrum by a factor of 17 to obtain the same maximum irradiance and show the result in Fig. 6.32. We ﬁnd that the cloudy day spectrum exhibits a relative decrease on the long- wavelength (low-energy) side when compared to AM1.5G. Let us analyze how the conversion efﬁciency and output power of a solar cell change in case of illumination with such a solar spectrum. In the following discussion, we compare the calculation results for the solar cells analyzed so far, i.e., the single- junction solar cell, the multi-junction tandem solar cell, and the intermediate-band solar cell. The calculations are performed for 1 sun illumination (X = 1). (1) Single-junction solar cell The conversion efﬁciency of the single-junction solar cell is shown in Fig. 6.33. Com- pared to the result for AM1.5G, the conversion efﬁciency during cloudy weather is smaller. The maximum conversion efﬁciency is 31% at Eg = 1.39 eV. The efﬁciency 6.7 Inﬂuence of the Weather 119 Fig. 6.31 Curve (a) is an example for a solar spectrum on a cloudy day, and curve (b) represents the AM1.5G spectrum. The total energy of the sunlight on a cloudy day is about one-seventeenth of the value for AM1.5G Fig. 6.32 Comparison of the relative spectral shapes. Here, the solar spectrum for the cloudy day and the AM1.5G spectrum shown in Fig. 6.31 have been normalized with respect to the maximum irradiance. On a cloudy day, the relative contribution of sunlight in the long-wavelength region will be slightly reduced in the long-wavelength region (8001300 nm) decrease is especially signiﬁcant on the low-energy side, and the band-gap energy for the maximum conversion efﬁciency is shifted slightly. Additionally, since the total power of the sunlight on a cloudy day is about one-seventeenth of that under clear sky, the amount of generated electricity drops drastically. A detailed discus- sion on the large change in the amount of generated electricity is provided later. Here, we ﬁrst focus on the fact that the conversion efﬁciency decrease due to the clouds is marginal. This strongly resembles the difference between the conversion efﬁciencies under AM0 and AM1.5G. The discussion in Sect. 6.1 revealed that the theoretical conversion efﬁciency for AM1.5G exceeds that of AM0 as a result of the reduced light intensity in the ultraviolet and infrared regions of the AM1.5G solar spectrum (due to the scattering and absorption by molecules in the atmosphere). The ultraviolet light is usually the origin of the thermalization losses in solar cells, and the infrared light is usually the origin of transmission losses in solar cells. In other 120 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Fig. 6.33 Conversion efﬁciency of a single-junction solar cell under the solar spectrum for cloudy weather without concentration of light. During cloudy weather, the conversion efﬁciency maximum is obtained for a larger band gap. The conversion efﬁciency is less than that obtained under AM1.5G; a maximum of 31% is reached at a band-gap energy of 1.39 eV words, the match between the solar spectrum and the solar cell increased owing to the reduction of ultraviolet and infrared light intensities. Also in case of the cloudy weather, we observe a signiﬁcant reduction of the near-infrared light intensity in the solar spectrum. Although an improvement in the efﬁciency might have been expected due to the reduction of absorption losses, the relatively broad reduction of the intensity in the region of the optimum band gap results in an overall small drop of the conversion efﬁciency. From Fig. 6.33, we ﬁnd that the band-gap energy for the maximum conversion efﬁciency during cloudy weather is larger than that for clear sky. Because the relative spectral contribution of sunlight in the near-infrared region decreased, the relative losses through thermalization would increase if we employ the optimum Eg for AM1.5G illumination. Consequently, a larger band-gap energy is more suited to maintain a large conversion efﬁciency during cloudy weather because the thermalization losses can be reduced. (2) Multi-junction solar cells Now let us investigate the inﬂuence of the cloudy day spectrum on the dual-junction and triple-junction solar cells. Figure 6.34 plots the calculation result for the conversion efﬁciency of a dual- junction solar cell under the solar spectrum during cloudy weather without concen- tration of sunlight. The horizontal axis is the band-gap energy of the top cell, and the vertical axis is that of the bottom cell. The conversion efﬁciency reaches its maxi- mum of 42.3% for the band-gap combination Ec1 = 1.60 eV and Ec2 = 0.94 eV. We note that the band-gap energy of the top cell optimized for the cloudy day spec- trum is larger than the optimum for AM1.5G (Fig. 6.10; the maximum conversion efﬁciency under AM1.5G illumination without concentration of sunlight is 45.7% for the band-gap combination Ec1 = 1.63 eV and Ec2 = 0.96 eV). Figure 6.35 shows the calculation result of the conversion efﬁciency of a triple- junction solar cell obtained under the cloudy day solar spectrum without concen- tration of sunlight. We assumed the same band gap for the bottom cell as for the 6.7 Inﬂuence of the Weather 121 Fig. 6.34 Conversion efﬁciency of a dual-junction solar cell obtained for unconcentrated sunlight (X = 1) and by employing the spectrum during cloudy weather. At the point Ec1 = 1.60 eV and Ec2 = 0.94 eV, the conversion efﬁciency reaches its maximum of 42.3% calculation in Fig. 6.12 (Ge with Ec3 = 0.66 eV) and evaluated the conversion efﬁciencies as a function of the band-gap values for the top and middle cells. The horizontal axis is the band-gap energy of the top cell, and the vertical axis is that of the middle cell. As shown in Fig. 6.12, the maximum conversion efﬁciency for AM1.5G illumination without concentration of sunlight is 50.4% for the band-gap combination Ec1 = 1.75 eV, Ec2 = 1.17 eV, and Ec3 = 0.66 eV. The band-gap energies of both top and middle cells for maximum conversion efﬁciency during a cloudy day are Ec1 = 1.77 eV and Ec2 = 1.20 eV (Fig. 6.35). Here, the maxi- mum conversion efﬁciency becomes 46.5%. Both optimum band-gap energies for the cloudy day spectrum are larger than those for the clear sky spectrum. The reason is the same as that for the single-junction solar cell; i.e., since the relative contribution of the near-infrared light in the solar spectrum on a cloudy day decreased, a larger band-gap energy is more suited to suppress the thermalization losses. (3) Intermediate-band solar cell In Fig. 6.36, we show the conversion efﬁciency during cloudy weather for the intermediate-band solar cell under unconcentrated sunlight. Compared to the case of AM1.5G illumination in Sect. 6.4, the maximum conversion efﬁciency during cloudy weather is lower. Furthermore, the band-gap energy for the maximum con- version efﬁciency during cloudy weather shifts to higher energies as expected. The change in the optimum band-gap energy with respect to the value obtained for clear sky is less than the changes that have been conﬁrmed for the other solar cell archi- tectures. The maximum conversion efﬁciency is 44.8% for a band-gap energy of 2.46 eV (between the conduction band and the valence band), and a gap energy of 1.53 eV between the valence band maximum and the intermediate-band quasi-Fermi level. The smaller loss can be explained by the design of the intermediate-band solar cell, which mixes parallel and serial elements. In such a case, the relative reduction of the near-infrared region in the solar spectrum leads to a relative decrease in the current of the serially connected element. 122 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Fig. 6.35 Conversion efﬁciency of a triple-junction solar cell obtained for unconcentrated AM1.5G sunlight (X = 1) and by employing the solar spectrum during cloudy weather. For the bottom cell material, we assumed Ge with a band-gap energy of Ec3 = 0.66 eV. At the point Ec1 = 1.77 eV and Ec2 = 1.20 eV, the conversion efﬁciency reaches its maximum of 46.5% Fig. 6.36 Conversion efﬁciency of an intermediate-band solar cell obtained for unconcentrated AM1.5G sunlight (X = 1) with the solar spectrum during cloudy weather. The maximum conversion efﬁciency is 44.8%, which is realized for a band-gap energy of 2.46 eV and a gap energy of 1.53 eV between the valence band maximum and the intermediate-band quasi-Fermi level So far, we discussed one speciﬁc example of a solar spectrum on a cloudy day and considered the inﬂuence of weather changes on the solar cell performance from the viewpoint of the optimized band-gap energies. The composition of the solar spectrum changes due to the ﬁlter effect of the clouds, and accordingly the conversion efﬁciencies decrease slightly. But more important than this efﬁciency decrease is the decrease in the output power. Since the total power of the sunlight on a cloudy day is much less than the total power under clear sky, the reduction in the amount of generated electricity cannot be neglected. Regarding the above results, one important point has to be emphasized. The actual value of the conversion efﬁciency is inﬂuenced 6.7 Inﬂuence of the Weather 123 by the solar spectrum. Consequently, depending on the speciﬁc weather condition considered, slightly different results may be obtained. In the discussion below, we assume a solar cell that is optimized for the solar spectrum obtained under clear sky conditions. We then clarify the inﬂuence of the cloudy weather by calculating the output powers and the conversion efﬁciencies upon illumination with different solar spectra for cloudy weather. Before the actual calculation results are presented, we have to provide a more detailed explanation regarding the cloudy day solar spectra that are used in the cal- culations. At the beginning of this section, we mentioned that the solar spectrum during cloudy weather exhibits a signiﬁcant intensity reduction when compared to AM1.5G. This reduction is due to the scattering and absorption by the clouds, but the degree of reduction differs according to the composition and thickness of the clouds. The main components of a cloud are water droplets and tiny dust particles. The water droplets absorb a part of the direct incident light, and the dust scatters the sunlight. The strength of these effects depends on the wavelength, and they alter the shape of the solar spectrum. In the following, we cover the solar spectra that are obtained by changing these parameters within the range dictated by usual cloudy weather. First, we conﬁrm the change in the spectral shape. In order to imagine the situation in simple terms, hereafter we use the term cloud thickness to refer to the amount of dust and the term water content to refer to the amount of water droplets. An increase in the amount of dust is equivalent to an increase of the cloud thick- ness. The light incident on the cloud is strongly scattered, and thus the light intensity decays as it passes through the cloud. The total intensity reduction of the transmitted light is determined by the path length of light passing through the cloud and the so- called turbidity coefﬁcient, which is a function that depends on the amount of dust. The distance travelled by the light as it passes through the cloud is set to unity for light that is normally incident on a horizontally extending cloud. The distance increases in accordance with the incident angle. In other words, we have the same behavior as for the AM deﬁned in Chap. 2. The turbidity coefﬁcient is a coefﬁcient that describes how much the light intensity decreases per unit length travelled through the cloud. The value in case of a path length equal to unity constitutes the reference value for the calculations. The light intensity of light at wavelength λ that reaches the Earths ground surface after passing the cloud, Iout, is represented by Eq. (6.66) [13]. Iout(λ) = Iin(λ)exp{τ(λ)  L} (6.66) Iin is the initial light intensity before scattering in the cloud occurs, L is the distance travelled by the light through the cloud, and τ(λ) is the turbidity coefﬁcient for L = 1. As shown in Eq. (6.67), the turbidity coefﬁcient τ(λ) can be expressed by using the turbidity at a certain reference wavelength, βn, and an exponent αn which depends on the dust particle size. τ(λ) = βn  λαn (6.67) 124 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies This turbidity βn is deﬁned as the cloud thickness. The value of αn changes with the particle size and thus inﬂuences the shape of the solar spectrum. However, the present calculations use a ﬁxed value of αn = 1.14, which is the same value as that for the AM1.5G atmosphere. For an accurate theoretical description of the scattering, the size difference between the particles in the atmosphere and the particles in the clouds has to be accounted for, but here we omit this detail. The calculations below are performed for values of βn ranging from 0 to 30. This range represents the standard values for a cloudy day and can be determined from the actual observation data [14]. The amount of water is treated as outlined below. If the amount of water in the cloud increases, the light passing through the cloud is absorbed stronger and decays faster. The amount of water is equivalent to the precipitation observed on the Earths ground surface if the entire water in the cloud has fallen down as rain. Therefore, it has a unit of a length, cm. For the calculation in this section, we employ spectra that include values for the amount of water within the range from 0 to 10 cm. First, let us conﬁrm the characteristic changes that occur in the spectral shape of the sunlight upon changing the cloud thickness or the amount of water. Figure 6.37 shows how the solar spectrum changes when we ﬁx the amount of water to the standard value for cloudy weather (3 cm) and vary the cloud thickness only. As the clouds become thicker, the solar spectrum is stronger affected by the scattering via the dust particles. In particular, a large decrease is observed on the short-wavelength side (i.e., at high energies). We can conﬁrm that the total power of the sunlight decreases drastically as βn increases. To investigate the dependence of the solar spectrum on the other parameter, we ﬁx the cloud thickness to the standard value of 25 and vary the amount of water (Fig. 6.38). As the amount of water increases, the solar spectrum slowly decreases in the near-infrared regime. There are several deep indentations in the solar spectrum, and most of them correspond to the absorption bands of water (H2O). Consequently, Fig. 6.37 Relation between the solar spectrum and the cloud thickness. As the thickness of the clouds increases, the total power of the solar spectrum decreases while the change at the short-wavelength side is initially more pronounced than in the long-wavelength region 6.7 Inﬂuence of the Weather 125 Fig. 6.38 Relation between the spectral shape of sunlight and the amount of water in the clouds. The intensity reduction induced by the water droplets is prominent in a certain wavelength range of the infrared regime. The decay of the light as it passes through the cloud is more signiﬁcant for a larger amount of water, and therefore the indentations in the spectrum become deeper Fig. 6.39 Relation between the output power and the cloud thickness. As the cloud thickness increases, all solar cell types exhibit a strong decrease in the output power the inﬂuence of the water droplets becomes more signiﬁcant for a larger amount of water. However, although a change in the spectral shape can be perceived, the total reduction of the sunlight power stays on an insigniﬁcant level. We shall now actually examine the changes in the output power and the conversion efﬁciency of solar cells that are exposed to solar spectra for different cloud conditions. First, we consider how the amount of generated electricity and the conversion efﬁciency change in case of a ﬁxed amount of water and varying cloud thickness. We assume the standard value of 3 cm for the amount of water and change the cloud thickness in the range from 0 to 30. The calculation is performed for the single- junction solar cell, the intermediate-band solar cell, the triple-junction solar cell, and the dual-junction solar cell. For the band-gap energies of these solar cells, we shall employ the values that provide maximum conversion efﬁciency for AM1.5G illumination without concentration of sunlight. The calculation results for the output power and the conversion efﬁciency are shown in Figs. 6.39 and 6.40, respectively. 126 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Fig. 6.40 Relation between the conversion efﬁciency and the cloud thickness. The trend of each solar cell type is different As the clouds become thicker, the energy entering the solar cell decreases, and the output power decreases with almost the same rate (Fig. 6.39). On the other hand, the change in the conversion efﬁciency (Figs. 6.33, 6.34, 6.35 and 6.36) is less pronounced than that observed for the output power. This is because the efﬁciency is a value that expresses the ratio of output power to incident light power. In other words, even if the amount of generated electricity (the numerator) decreases strongly on a cloudy day, since this reduction corresponds to the reduction of the incident light energy (i.e., the denominator), the conversion efﬁciency (the ratio between them) does not change much. Furthermore, it is important to note that each solar cell exhibits a different dependence on the cloud thickness (Fig. 6.31). In case of the multi-junction solar cells, the efﬁciencies initially increase as the clouds become thicker, and then decrease gently. The results for the intermediate-band solar cell and the single-junction solar cell predict an initial decrease and then an intermediate gentle increase which is ﬁnally followed by another decrease. All curves exhibit a non-monotone behavior. In the following, we analyze the changes in the output power and conversion efﬁciency for a ﬁxed cloud thickness and a varying amount of water. The amount of water changes with season and location, but is on the order of 0.5 cm for clear sky and 10 cm for heavy rain. Here, we perform calculations for values up to 10 cm. For each solar cell type, we shall employ those band-gap energies that result in the maximum conversion efﬁciency for AM1.5G illumination without concentration of sunlight. The calculation results for the output power and the conversion efﬁciency are shown in Figs. 6.41 and 6.42, respectively. As explained above, while the amount of water alters the spectrum of the Sun in the near-infrared region, the inﬂuence on the total power is not severe. A similar effect is observed for both the amount of generated electricity and the conversion efﬁciency; that is, they exhibit no signiﬁcant reduction upon increasing the amount of water. Further, the degree of the reduction in the conversion efﬁciency of the multi-junction solar cell is large when compared to the reduction observed for the other solar cell 6.7 Inﬂuence of the Weather 127 Fig. 6.41 Relation between the output power and the amount of water in the clouds. The increase in the amount of water is accompanied by a slight decrease in the output power. The observed decrease is small when compared to that for the variation of the cloud thicknesses. Further, the decrease observed for the multi-junction tandem solar cells and the intermediate-band solar cell is more signiﬁcant than that of the single-junction solar cell Fig. 6.42 Relation between the conversion efﬁciency and the amount of water in the clouds. The intermediate-band architecture shows almost no decrease, but the multi-junction tandem solar cells exhibit a relatively steep decrease. The conversion efﬁciency of the single-junction solar cell increases as the amount of water increases types. In other words, the multi-junction solar cell is sensitive to the change in the spectral shape of the sunlight. In that respect, the multi-junction solar cell character- istics are easily inﬂuenced. The conversion efﬁciency of the intermediate-band solar cell exhibits almost no change and thus is hardly inﬂuenced by the amount of water. In contrast, the conversion efﬁciency of the single-junction solar cell increases upon increasing the amount of water because the match between the solar cell and the resulting solar spectrum becomes better. 128 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies 6.8 Inﬂuence of the Temperature InSect.6.2,weshowedthatthetheoreticalconversionefﬁciencylimitofanysolarcell increases signiﬁcantly if we employ concentrated sunlight for excitation. However, as is the case for focusing light by a magnifying glass, the solar cell temperature will increase immediately if sunlight is focused on the device because more light with energy in excess to the band-gap energy is absorbed. If a semiconductor is illuminated by light, electrons are excited from the valence band to the conduction band. In general, electrons are excited to a state above the conduction band minimum. The electrons reach the stable ground state at the band edge via energy relaxation, that is, by emitting the energy in excess to the band gap via phonons. Due to the emission of these phonons, the lattice temperature of the crystal increases. So far, we discussed solar cells at a temperature of T c = 300 K (and 0 K in Chap. 3), but the temperature of an actual solar can exceed this value signiﬁcantly. Consequently, we have to specify how the conversion efﬁciency is inﬂuenced by such an increase in the solar cell temperature. The conclusion that can be drawn from the discussion below is that the conversion efﬁciency decreases for increasing solar cell temperatures, and this constitutes an important issue for concentrator solar cells. It is known that the band-gap energy Eg of a semiconductor usually decreases as the temperature increases. This behavior can be well explained by the semiempirical Varshni equation [15] shown in Eq. (6.68). Eg(T ) = E(0) αT 2 T + β (6.68) Here, T is the temperature of the semiconductor, and α and β are experimen- tally determined constants. The temperature dependence of the Eg of the frequently employed solar cell materials silicon (Si), germanium (Ge), and gallium arsenide (GaAs) is given by Eqs. (6.69)(6.71) [16], respectively. Si: Eg(T ) = 1.17 4.37  104  T 2 T + 636 (6.69) GaAs: Eg(T ) = 1.519 5.405  104  T 2 T + 204 (6.70) Ge: Eg(T ) = 0.74 4.77  104  T 2 T + 235 (6.71) By plotting these equations in the range of 0500 K, we obtain the curves shown in Fig. 6.43. We ﬁnd that the band-gap energy monotonously decreases as the temperature increases. This is a result of the temperature-dependent extension of the lattice and change in the energy band that is formed by the electronlattice interactions. How- ever, since a discussion of these effects is not in the scope of this book, we omit a detailed explanation. The important point is that the temperature dependence of Eg 6.8 Inﬂuence of the Temperature 129 Fig. 6.43 Temperature dependence of the band-gap energies of GaAs, Si, and Ge becomes stronger for higher temperatures. At around 300 K, which is near room tem- perature, the changes in the band-gap energies of Si, Ge, and GaAs for a temperature increase of 1 C are 0.24, 0.39, and 0.45 meV, respectively. Let us evaluate the conversion efﬁciencies for different solar cell temperatures by employing the temperature dependence of the band gap. We shall determine the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency obtained under AM1.5G illumi- nation without concentration of sunlight (X = 1) as discussed in Sect. 6.1. First, we use Eq. (5.20). η = u  νg, Ts   v  xg, xc, f   FF (5.20) u  νg, Ts  can be expressed with Eqs. (3.43.6) and becomes u  νg, Ts  =   νg G(ν, Ts)  hνgdν   0 G(ν, Ts)  hνdν  100 (3.43.6) Further, the variable xg in v  xg, xc, f  can be expressed as shown in Eq. (4.34). xg = hνg/kTs = Eg/kTs (4.34) ThesetwoequationsdescribetheparametersthatdependonEg,whichisafunction of the temperature T c. Besides u  νg, Ts  and xg, there are several terms that directly depend on the solar cell temperature T c. These are Pﬂux  νg, Tc  , the ratio xc of the solar cell temperature to that of the Sun, xc = Tc/Ts (4.35) and V c which can be expressed using the solar cell temperature as shown in Eq. (4.15). 130 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Vc = kTc e (4.15) They connect the ﬁll factor FF, FF = z2 m {1 + zm exp(zm)}{zm + ln(1 + zm)} (5.19) the zm and the zop deﬁned in the equation below, zop = Vop Vc = zm + ln(1 + zm) (5.105.11) and the open-circuit voltage Vop, Vop = Vcln  fc  λEg 0 N(λ)dλ 2π Pﬂux  νg, Tc  (6.5) with the solar cell temperature. Let us identify the origin of the temperature dependence of V c. We provided a deﬁnition for V c in Sect. 4.2 during the discussion of the radiative recombination rate Fc which can be represented as Eq. (4.13). Fc(V ) = α  np = αn2 i  exp  Efe Efh kTc  (4.13) Here,theradiativerecombinationrateFc isexpressedastheproductoftheelectron and hole densities given by Eqs. (4.11) and (4.12), respectively. n = niexp  Efe Ei kTc  (4.11) p = niexp  Ei Efh kTc  (4.12) These equations state that the carrier densities depend on the solar cell temperature T c. Further, the radiative recombination rate Fc can be expressed as Fc(V ) = α  np = Fc0exp  V Vc  (4.18) by using Eq. (4.16) and the rate Fc0 for the electronhole pair generation rate due to the ﬁnite solar cell temperature. In such a way, V c reﬂects the changes of the electron density and hole density at different temperatures. We calculate the conversion efﬁciency of the solar cell as a function of the tem- perature by considering the abovementioned temperature dependence of the band 6.8 Inﬂuence of the Temperature 131 gap and the carrier densities. In Fig. 6.44, we show the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency for Si, Ge, and GaAs single-junction solar cells for AM1.5G illumination without concentration of sunlight. As the temperature increases, the conversion efﬁciencies of the Si, Ge, and GaAs single-junction solar cells decrease without exception. Furthermore, we can estimate the expected conversion efﬁciency if we select a certain semiconductor material and can predict the operating temperature of the solar cell. We note that depending on the temperature, the solar cell with the highest conversion efﬁciency may change as is the case for Si and GaAs, which cross at 308 K. The extent of the conversion efﬁciency change for a certain temperature difference depends on the band gap of the semiconductor. In Fig. 6.45, we show band-gap energy dependence of the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciencies at three different temperatures (100, 300, and 500 K). Fig. 6.44 Theoretical temperature dependence of the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency for AM1.5G illumination without concentration of sunlight Fig. 6.45 Detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciencies (for AM1.5G, X = 1) at 100, 300, and 500 K 132 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies The band-gap energies of the representative semiconductors Si, Ge, and GaAs at 300 K are indicated with the broken lines. To verify the inﬂuence of the temper- ature change on the conversion efﬁciency, we compare the difference between the conversion efﬁciencies for 300 and 500 K in Fig. 6.46. The band-gap energies of Si, Ge, and GaAs at room temperature are 1.12, 0.67, and 1.43 eV, respectively. The largest conversion efﬁciency decrease in Fig. 6.46 is observed near the band-gap energy of Ge (Eg = 0.67 eV); the efﬁciency decreases by 12% at 0.70 eV. The reduction in the conversion efﬁciency becomes smaller as Eg increases. Finally, let us separately consider the contributions of the temperature-induced efﬁciency loss in terms of the band-gap change and the carrier density change. From Fig. 6.45, we can conﬁrm that the conversion efﬁciency decreases for band-gap energies smaller than 0.67 eV (which is the Eg of Ge). On the other hand, for semi- conductors with band-gap energies above about 1.2 eV such as GaAs, the conversion efﬁciency decreases upon increasing temperature. When we look at the conversion efﬁciency curve at 300 Kin Fig. 6.45, we might say that in case of GaAs, the efﬁciency should increase for higher temperature since the band gap becomes smaller. How- ever, even for GaAs with its large band gap, the conversion efﬁciency decreases upon increasingtemperatures.Thismeansthattheinﬂuenceofthetemperaturedependence of the carrier density is stronger than the improvement in the conversion efﬁciency due to the band-gap energy reduction. As explained in Sect. 4.2, the radiative and the non-radiative recombination rates are proportional to the product of electron and hole densities. The concentrations of electrons and holes increase upon raising the temperature, and as a result, the electronhole recombination becomes signiﬁ- cantly strong, which is accompanied by a decrease in the conversion efﬁciency. This contribution is the most important factor in evaluating the changes of the solar cell characteristics. The partial compensation between the band-gap decrease for higher Fig. 6.46 Difference between the conversion efﬁciencies for 300 and 500 K as shown in Fig. 6.45 6.8 Inﬂuence of the Temperature 133 temperatures and the inﬂuence of the carrier density increase is the reason for the relatively gentle temperature dependence of the GaAs conversion efﬁciency shown in Fig. 6.44. 6.9 Indoor Photovoltaic Cell In this chapter, we have calculated the conversion efﬁciency for various types of solar cells. Here, we consider photovoltaic cells efﬁciently harvesting indoor light. Indoor photovoltaic cells are already used in our daily life for wristwatches, calculators, various wireless devices, and stuff. After the invention of blue light-emitting diode (LED), white LEDs have been widely spreading for indoor light. In this section, we focus on indoor photovoltaic cells harvesting white LED light. Typical emission spectra of cool white LED and warm white LED are shown in Fig. 6.47 along with the AM1.5G spectrum. The white color is obtained by yellow phosphor excited by a blue LED. Thereby, the spectrum dominantly shows peaks in the blue and yellow regions; the sharp peak appearing around 450 nm in Fig. 6.47 corresponds to the blue emission from a nitride semiconductor-based LED, and the broad yellow band around 600 nm comes from the phosphor. Let us calculate the conversion efﬁciency using the spectra shown in Fig. 6.47. It should be noted that this spectrum is not absolute spectral irradiance but relative spectral irradiance. In order to calculate the conversion efﬁciency, absolute spectral irradiance is necessary. We convert relative spectral irradiance to absolute spectral irradiance. Here, we introduce a new term, illuminance, which is a quantity indicating brightness humans feel. The illuminance is deﬁned as a luminous ﬂux per one square meter, and the unit is lm/m2 or lux, where lm (lumen) is the unit of luminous ﬂux. A luminous ﬂux is deﬁned as the intensity of light that can be perceived by humans. Fig. 6.47 Relative spectral irradiance. Curve (a) is the data for AM1.5G, curve (b) that for a typical cool white LED, and curve (c) that for a typical warm white LED 134 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Fig. 6.48 Photopic luminous efﬁciency curve What is the difference between the luminous ﬂux and the irradiation intensity? The irradiation intensity is a product of the photon ﬂux per unit area and the energy of photons. On the other hand, the illuminance and the luminous ﬂux are calibrated by light sensitivity for the human eye. The human eye has sensitivity in a range of 400700 nm. The Commission Internationale de lEclairage (CIE) establishes the photopic luminous efﬁciency function as a standard light sensitivity of human eye [17]. Photopic luminous efﬁciency function is shown in Fig. 6.48. This function peaks 683 lm/W at 555 nm and expands in the range of 400700 nm. The conversion from irradiation ﬂux to luminous ﬂux is carried out by using the following equation: L =   0 (λ)Pﬂux,absolute(λ)dλ (6.72) L is illuminance in lux, (λ) is the photopic luminous efﬁciency function shown in Fig. 6.48, and Pﬂux, absolute(λ) is the absolute spectral irradiance as a function of wavelength in W/m2 nm, respectively. Pﬂux, absolute(λ) is obtained by Fig. 6.48 and Eq. (6.72). Firstly, we deﬁne the rela- tionship between the absolute spectral irradiance and the relative spectral irradiance as follows: Pﬂux, absolute(λ) = γ  Pﬂux, relative(λ) (6.73) Here, γ is the proportionality factor, and Pﬂux, relative(λ) is relative spectral irradi- ance shown in Fig. 6.47. The following equation is derived by substituting Eq. (6.73) into Eq. (6.72): 6.9 Indoor Photovoltaic Cell 135 L =   0 (λ)γ  Pﬂux, relative(λ)dλ L = γ   0 (λ)  Pﬂux, relative(λ)dλ γ = L   0 (λ)  Pﬂux, relative(λ)dλ (6.74) The denominator of Eq. (6.74) can be calculated by using Figs. 6.47 and 6.48. If we determine the value of illuminance, the proportionality factor γ , and ﬁnally the absolute spectral irradiance are obtained. International Organization for Stan- dardization (ISO) deﬁnes a recommended illuminance according to place, type of interior, task, or activity [18], for example, the recommended illuminance for writ- ing, typing, reading, and data processing in ofﬁces: 500 lx, electronic workshops, testing in electrical industry: 1500 lx. These recommended illuminances are in the range of 501500 lx. Here, we adopt the illuminance of 1000 lx for the calculation of conversion efﬁciency. Figure 6.49 shows the calculated absolute spectral irradiance. The indoor irradiation intensity is approximately second order weaker than that of AM1.5G as shown in Fig. 6.1. Equations necessary for calculating the conversion efﬁciency are completely the same as those used under AM1.5G illumination, which is described in Sect. 6.1. The calculated conversion efﬁciency as a function of band-gap energy is shown in Fig. 6.50. As we calculated in Sect. 6.1, the maximum conversion efﬁciency under AM1.5G illumination is approximately 33%. Under the illumination of the white LED, it is interesting that the conversion efﬁciency exceeds 50% because the white LED contains less light components causing transmission and thermalization losses. Besides, the optimum band gap is around 1.8 eV for the white LED, while around Fig. 6.49 Absolute spectral irradiance. Curve (a) is the data for the cool white LED and curve (b) that for the warm white LED 136 6 Actual Calculation of Solar Cell Efﬁciencies Fig. 6.50 Conversion efﬁciency as a function of band-gap energy where illuminance is 1000 lx. Curve (a) is the data for AM1.5G, curve (b) that for a typical cool white LED, and curve (c) that for a typical warm white LED 1.2 eV for AM1.5G. Since the AM1.5G illumination contains strong near-infrared light, the smaller band gap is suitable for reducing the transmission loss. References 1. Solar Spectra. National Renewable Energy Laboratory, USA. https://www.nrel.gov/grid/solar- resource/spectra.html. Accessed 15 Apr 2019 2. Landolt-BörnsteinDatabase.SpringerMaterials.http://www.materials.springer.com.Accessed 15 Apr 2019 3. Würfel P (1982) The chemical potential of radiation. J Phys C Solid State Phys 15(18):39673984 4. Luque A, Martí A (1997) Increasing the efﬁciency of ideal solar cells by photon induced transitions at intermediate levels. Phys Rev Lett 78(26):50145017 5. TakahashiA,UedaT,BesshoY,HaradaY,KitaT,TaguchiE,YasudaH(2013)One-dimensional miniband formation in closely stacked InAs/GaAs quantum dots. Phys Rev B 87(23):235323 6. Keevers MJ, Green MA (1994) Efﬁciency improvements of silicon solar cells by the impurity photovoltaic effect. J Appl Phys 75(8):40224031 7. López N, Reichertz LA, Yu KM, Campman K, Walukiewicz W (2011) Engineering the elec- tronic band structure for multiband solar cells. Phys Rev Lett 106(2):028701 8. Yu KM, Walukiewicz W, Wu J, Shan W, Beeman JW, Scarpulla MA, Dubon OD, Becla P (2003) Diluted II-VI oxide semiconductors with multiple band gaps. Phys Rev Lett 91(24):246403 9. Asahi S, Teranishi H, Kusaki K, Kaizu T, Kita T (2017) Two-step photon up-conversion solar cells. Nat Commun 8:14962; Asahi S, Kusaki K, Harada Y, Kita T (2018) Increasing conversion efﬁciency of two-step photon up-conversion solar cell with a voltage booster hetero-interface. Sci Rep 8:871 10. Ye S, Zhu B, Chen J, Luo J, Qiu JR (2008) Infrared quantum cutting in Tb3+, Yb3+ codoped transparent glass ceramics containing CaF2 anocrystals. App Phys Lett 92(14):141112 11. Schaller RD, Klimov VI (2004) High efﬁciency carrier multiplication in PbSe Nanocrystals: implications for solar energy conversion. Phys Rev Lett 92(18):186601 or also Klimov VI (2006) Detailed-balance power conversion limits of nanocrystal-quantum-dot solar cells in the presence of carrier multiplication. Appl Phys Lett 89(12):123118 References 137 12. Bird Simple Spectral Model. The National Renewable Energy Laboratory, USA. https://www. nrel.gov/grid/solar-resource/spectral.html. Accessed 15 Apr 2019 13. Bird RE, Riordan CJ (1986) Simple solar spectral model for direct and diffuse irradiance on horizontal and tilted planes at the earths surface for cloudless atmospheres. J Clim Appl Meteorol 25(1):8797 14. Aerosol Robotic Network. National Aeronautics and Space Administration, USA. https:// aeronet.gsfc.nasa.gov/. Accessed 15 Apr 2019 15. Varshni YP (1967) Temperature dependence of the energy gap in semiconductors. Physica 34(1):149154 16. Singh J (2001) Semiconductor devices: basic principles. John & Sons Inc, New York 17. Commission Internationale de lEclairage (1990) CIE 1988 2 Spectral luminous efﬁciency function for photopic vision. CIE 86-1990 18. International Organization for Standardization (2002) Lighting of work placespart 1: indoor. ISO 8995-1:2002 (CIE S 008/E:2001) Chapter 7 Application Limits for the Ideal Conditions Abstract The solar cells covered in the previous chapters are idealized solar cells, which allowed us to evaluate the efﬁciency limits under various conditions. Of course, besides the conditions employed so far (like the transmission of photons with Ephoton  Eg), there exist plenty of other factors that lead to losses in the amount of generated electricity and thus are important for the actual development of solar cells. Due to these losses, the conversion efﬁciency of an actually fabricated solar cell is smaller than the theoretical efﬁciency limit. For example, if we use silicon (Si) for the solar cell absorber material, the detailed balance limit of the conversion efﬁciency is about 30%. This value can be obtained from Fig. 5.10 in Chap. 5 by looking up the efﬁ- ciency for the curve (b) at 1.1 eV, which is the band gap of Si. On the other hand, when we look up the present values for actual Si pn junction solar cells, we ﬁnd that the single crystal type has reached a maximum of 26.3% and the multi-crystalline type has reached a maximum of 22.3%, both being well below the theoretical efﬁciency limit[1]. In Chap. 3, we discussed the trade-off relation between the transmission and thermalization losses in the single-junction solar cell and derived the conversion efﬁciency limit that is imposed by these two types of losses. In considerations on the solar cell performance, such trade-off relations exist for various parameters. As another example for a trade-off relation, in the following sections, we introduce the semiconductor light absorption characteristics, which differ for each material. With this new concept, we discuss the solar cell conversion efﬁciency from a viewpoint that is different from the detailed balance model elaborated in the previous chapters. The trade-off presented in the following sections is a trade-off between the thickness of the semiconductor that is required for sufﬁcient light absorption and the distance that can be travelled by the generated electrons and holes. The latter property is essential for the efﬁcient extraction of carriers at the electrodes. It is straightforward that a thicker semiconductor can absorb more light. On the other hand, if the semiconduc- tor is too thick, the distance that has to be travelled by the photoexcited electrons and holes also becomes longer. If the path to be travelled is long, there is a high probability for the electron to collide with an obstacle before its electrical energy can  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2019 T. Kita et al., Energy Conversion Efﬁciency of Solar Cells, Green Energy and Technology, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-9089-0_7 139 140 7 Application Limits for the Ideal Conditions be used. Then the energy is unfortunately lost in spite of the efforts to generate it. A thicker semiconductor is not necessarily better; we have to consider the optimum thickness for efﬁcient extraction of the electrical energy. After discussing the light absorption characteristics of semiconductors in Sect. 7.1, we explain the transport of the generated electrons and holes inside the semiconductor in Sect. 7.2. In the last section, we consider two speciﬁc semiconductor materials, Si and GaAs, as examples and discuss the optimum semiconductor thickness in a solar cell. Keywords Absorption coefﬁcient  Minority carrier diffusion  Photocurrent density 7.1 Consideration of the Absorption Coefﬁcient The calculations performed up to Chap. 6 assume that all photons with energy above the semiconductor band-gap energy are absorbed, which omits any consideration of the thickness of the semiconductor absorber layer in the solar cell. However, a certain thickness of the semiconductor is required to actually absorb the light. The absorption coefﬁcient determines how much light can be absorbed by a material with a certain thickness. Let us consider the case of monochromatic light with wavelength λ and photon ﬂux 0 being incident on a material with thickness d as shown in Fig. 7.1. Assume that there is no reﬂection of light at the materials surface. When the material then absorbs the photon ﬂux , the remaining photon ﬂux 0  exits the back surface of the material. It is known that the logarithm of the ratio between the photon ﬂux 0 incident on the front surface and the photon ﬂux 0 exiting at the back surface is proportional to the thickness of the material. This connection is the law of attenuation of light by absorption in a material and is called the LambertBeer law. Equation (7.1) represents the LambertBeer law with α as the proportionality constant. Here, α is a positive number and deﬁned with respect to the natural loga- rithm (the logarithm that employs Napiers constant e as a base), which is useful for the following calculation. Fig. 7.1 Relation between the incident photon ﬂux, the absorbed photon ﬂux, and the transmitted photon ﬂux. In this ﬁgure, we neglect the reﬂection of the incident light 7.1 Consideration of the Absorption Coefﬁcient 141 Because we consider that the material absorbs a photon ﬂux corresponding to , the transmitted photon ﬂux is strictly smaller than the incident photon ﬂux. When we focus on the ratio of incident light to transmitted light inside the logarithm, we ﬁnd that it is less than unity and therefore the logarithm becomes negative. ln 0  0 d ln 0  0 = αd (7.1) The photon ﬂux that is absorbed by the material, , constitutes the important number for the solar cell. This is because each photon in the absorbed photon ﬂux leads to a photoexcitation of an electron and hole as explained in Chap. 1. Let us reformulate Eq. (7.1) and solve for . Since the LambertBeer law uses a logarithmic representation, let us ﬁrst revert it to the conventional linear representation. 0  0 = exp(αd) By rearranging this equation, we obtain the equation that expresses the photon ﬂux  as a function of the thickness d.  = 0{1 exp(αd)} (7.2) The α which is used as a proportionality constant is called the light absorption coefﬁcient. Its unit is the inverse of a length. As the absorption coefﬁcient becomes larger, more light is absorbed by the material, i.e.,  becomes larger. Furthermore, the absorption coefﬁcient is a value speciﬁc to the material and also depends on the wavelength of the incident light. To gain an accurate picture of the semiconductor absorption coefﬁcients, we use some literature values [2]. First, we consider the case of monocrystalline Si. As the reader might know, Si is todays most common semiconductor for solar cells. According to the literature, the absorption coefﬁcient of monocrystalline Si is about 1.8  104 cm1 for light with a wavelength of 500 nm. Let us substitute this value for α into Eq. (7.2) and calculate how much light can be absorbed. For the sake of simplicity, we assume that the thickness of the Si single crystal, d, is the inverse of the above value 1.8  104 cm1 (i.e., d = 0.56 µm). The exponent on the right-hand side of Eq. (7.2) then becomes αd = 1. With Napiers constant e = 2.72, the term in the parenthesis of the right- hand side can be evaluated,  1 eαd = 0.63. In other words, the thickness that is required to absorb about 63% of the incident photon ﬂux is equal to the inverse of the absorption coefﬁcient. Additionally, the material depth that results in an absorption of about 63% of the incident light is called the penetration depth of light (here, 0.56 µm). 142 7 Application Limits for the Ideal Conditions In the following, we consider the light absorption for the same material but use a different wavelength of the incident light. The absorption coefﬁcient of monocrys- talline Si with respect to light with a wavelength of 800 nm is about 1.0 103 cm1. When we perform the same calculation as for the light at 500 nm, we ﬁnd that a thickness of 10 µm is required to absorb 63% of the incident light with a wavelength of 800 nm. However, in case of the Si single crystal with a thickness of 0.56 µm, only a small amount of about 5% of the incident light at 800 nm can be absorbed. This means that, although a thickness of 0.56 µm allows to absorb more than half of the light at 500 nm, 95% are transmitted in case of 800 nm light. Next, let us consider a GaAs single crystal. As mentioned in Chap. 6, GaAs is a material that has the potential to realize the highest conversion efﬁciency within the single-junction scheme explained in the SQ theory. With respect to light with a wavelength of 500 nm, the GaAs absorption coefﬁcient is about 1.1  105 cm1. Therefore, the GaAs single crystal thickness that is required to absorb 63% of the light at 500 nm is only 0.09 µm. This absorption behavior for different materials and wavelengths is illustrated in Fig. 7.2. Additionally, in Fig. 7.3, we plot the wavelength dependence of the absorp- tion coefﬁcients of Si and GaAs. It can be clearly seen that the absorption coefﬁcient for each material exhibits a different wavelength dispersion characteristic. Because the extent of the light absorption directly inﬂuences the conversion efﬁciency, it is evident that the consideration of the light absorption coefﬁcient is extremely impor- tant for the prediction of the solar cell characteristics. The absorbed light ﬂux  explained above corresponds to the total amount of light that is absorbed while the light passes through the volume of the material, that is, from the front surface to the back surface. The distance from the location of the electronhole pair generation to the depletion layer region will become important Fig. 7.2 Different behavior of the light absorption in Si and GaAs single crystals with same thick- ness (0.56 µm) 7.1 Consideration of the Absorption Coefﬁcient 143 Fig. 7.3 Relation between the wavelength of the incident photon and the absorption coefﬁcient. The absorption spectrum reﬂects the unique wavelength dispersion characteristics of the material Fig. 7.4 Method for deriving the absorbed photon ﬂux in a cross-sectional volume at depth x for the detailed discussion of the diffusion of the minority carriers in the following Sect. 7.2. For this discussion, we now derive the photon ﬂux that is absorbed in a cross-sectional volume (thickness dx) at the depth x as measured from the surface of the material. In Fig. 7.4, we show an illustration of the derivation method. The photon ﬂux that is absorbed within this cross-sectional volume is obtained by calculating the difference between the photon ﬂux that is absorbed within a distance x and the photon ﬂux that is absorbed within a distance x + dx. The inﬁnitesimal photon ﬂux absorbed in the cross section at depth x is the result for dx approaching 0. If we employ Eq. (7.2), which expresses the penetration-depth dependence of the photon ﬂux for a certain material, the following derivative of  is obtained: lim dx0  dx = lim dx0 0  1 exp{α(x + dx)} 0{1 exp(αx)} dx (7.3) 144 7 Application Limits for the Ideal Conditions Using the above, the photon ﬂux absorbed in the cross-sectional volume with inﬁnitesimal thickness located at depth x can be represented as shown in Eq. (7.4). Because this absorbed photon ﬂux depends on the depth x, we use the notation d(x). d(x) = 0  αexp(αx) (7.4) Here, 0 represents the incident photon ﬂux at a speciﬁc wavelength. In the present section, we employ the AM1.5 spectrum (curve (b) in Fig. 6.1) as the input power of the solar cell, which is the same condition as in Sect. 6.7. For each wavelength λ, the photon ﬂux 0 of the sunlight (that reaches the Earths ground surface) has a different value. Therefore, in the calculations below, we shall use the notation 0(λ) for the incident photon ﬂux. Similarly, in order to express that the absorption coefﬁcient α also depends on the wavelength, we use the notation α (λ). We can now precisely state that the absorbed photon ﬂux is a function of the wavelength λ and the depth x. d(x, λ) = 0(λ)  α(λ)  exp(α(λ)x) Finally, we determine the density of photoexcited electrons and holes that are generatedatdepthx byabsorptionofincidentlightwithwavelength λ.Ifwedeﬁnethe number of electronhole pairs that are excited by a single photon during absorption of light in the semiconductor as tc (see Sect. 4.1), the density of the photoexcited electronhole pairs, g(x, λ), can be written as shown in Eq. (7.5). g(x, λ) = tc  0(λ)  α(λ)  exp(α(λ)x) (7.5) The ratio tc is also called quantum efﬁciency. In case of tc = 1, each absorbed photon results in photoexcitation of one electronhole pair. In the following discus- sion, we employ the same conditions as in Sect. 4.1 and consider that tc is unity. 7.2 The Minority Carrier Diffusion In the previous section, we derived the depth proﬁle of the photogenerated elec- tronhole pair density, g(x, λ). Next, we need to understand how many of these electronhole pairs contribute to the electricity generation of the solar cell. Even if electrons are generated by photoexcitation, they may collide with a hole on their way to the place where they can be utilized, that is, the electrode. In other words, there is a possibility that the electronhole pairs disappear before they contribute to the elec- tricity generation. The present section elucidates the details about the electronhole pairs that have not been extinguished and thus can be effectively utilized. 7.2 The Minority Carrier Diffusion 145 To begin with, we shall investigate the structure that is required for the separation and transport of the photogenerated carriers. Below, we specify the solar cell structure that is employed in this section. The n-layer is at the side where the light enters the pn junction (front), and the p-layer is at the back as shown in Fig. 7.5. We assume that the n-layer is sufﬁciently thin to enable a signiﬁcant excitation of the p-layer volume by incident light. Regarding the thickness of the p-layer, we assume it being larger than that of the n-layer. This structure is commonly adopted in monocrystalline Si solar cells. The details are given in Sect. 7.3. We note that Fig. 7.5 omits the electrodes at the front side and back side, as well as other elements like the anti-reﬂection coating. Now let us analyze how the photogenerated electrons and holes move in this structure. As described by Eq. (7.5), the density of the photoexcited electronhole pairs varies with the depth because the density of the photoexcited electronhole pairs, g(x, λ), is a function of the depth x. Therefore, there is a density gradient in the neutral regions of both the p- and n-layers. When we consider electrons and holes as particles, we have to be aware that there is a force that tries to make the particle density homogeneous within the medium. This phenomenon is called diffusion, which is a random movement of particles in all the possible directions. Consequently, the electrons in the neutral region of the p-layer as well as the holes in the neutral region of the n-layer diffuse also toward the side of the depletion region. The p-layer contains many holes which are induced by the acceptors, and the n-layer contains many excess electrons which originate from the donors. Therefore, the photoexcited electrons in the p-layer as well as the photoexcited holes in the n-layer are called minority carriers. If these minority carriers reach the depletion region via diffusion as shown with arrow ➀in Fig. 1.11, they can contribute to the electricity generated by the solar cell. However, there is also the possibility that they are annihilated by recombination as shown with arrow ➁in Fig. 1.11. To consider the diffusion of the minority carriers including the abovementioned annihilation, we employ the continuity equation of the form provided in Eq. (7.6). Fig. 7.5 Structure of the semiconductor pn junction considered in this chapter 146 7 Application Limits for the Ideal Conditions Dh d2 pN dx2 pN pN0 τh = 0 (7.6) The continuity equation is frequently treated in textbooks concerning semicon- ductor engineering [3] and is also covered in detail in Chap. 8. Equation (7.6) is the equation for the case of photoexcited holes in the neutral region of the n-layer (i.e., the region without electric ﬁeld) in a steady-state condition. It discusses the photoex- cited hole density in terms of the difference between total hole density (pN) and the hole density in dark (pN0). The ﬁrst term on the left-hand side represents the increase of the total hole density pN as a result of the overall diffusion toward the cross section at depth x within a certain time. The second term describes the hole density reduction via recombination of photoexcited holes (the photoexcited hole density is pN pN0) in the cross-sectional volume with inﬁnitesimal thickness located at depth x within a certain time. In a situation with continuous light illumination, the solar cell is in a steady-state condition and generates a constant output power. Consequently, the hole current that passes the cross section at depth x within a certain time is constant, and the right-hand side of the equation, which describes the temporal change in the hole density at depth x, is zero. Dh is called the diffusion constant of the holes and describes the ease of diffusion, that is, a larger Dh implies a better transport. The subscript h means hole, and De is used to express the diffusion constant of the electron, which is used later. τh is the recombination life time of the photoexcited hole, which describes that after a certain hole population has been generated by photoexcitation, and the hole popu- lation is reduced to 36.8% (=1/e) of the initial population within the time τh due to electronhole recombination. Our target is to discuss the depth dependence of the photoexcited carriers including effects of diffusion and recombination, and therefore, we reformulate Eq. (7.6). Because pN is the hole density in the n-layer under light illumination and pN0 describes the hole density in the n-layer without light illumi- nation, the difference pN pN0 is the density of the photoexcited holes. Since the density of the photoexcited holes changes with the depth x, we express this density as a function of x. pN(x) = pN(x) pN0 (7.7) By substituting Eq. (7.7) into Eq. (7.6), we obtain Eq. (7.8). Dh d2pN(x) dx2 pN(x) τh = 0 (7.8) Equation (7.8) is a differential equation. Because pN0 is independent of x, the derivative of pN(x) with respect to x results in the same value as the derivative of pN(x) with respect to x. By slightly transforming Eq. (7.8), we can derive the solution shown in Eq. (7.9). 7.2 The Minority Carrier Diffusion 147 d2pN(x) dx2 = 1 Dhτh  pN(x) pN(x) = Aexp  x Dhτh  + Bexp   x Dhτh  (7.9) Let us evaluate the integration constants A and B, which are introduced during the integration. Consider the case of an inﬁnite depth x . The recombination life time τh has a ﬁnite value, and therefore, the photoexcited holes will recombine somewhere in the n-layer. Because the photoexcited hole cannot diffuse from the front surface (on the side of light incidence) to the inﬁnite far back surface, s can be evaluated as shown in Eq. (7.10). lim xpN(x) = lim xAexp  x Dhτh  = 0 A = 0 (7.10) Next, we consider the case for the depth approaching zero, i.e., the front surface. The density of photoexcited holes at the materials surface can be obtained from Eq. (7.5). lim x0 pN(x) = B = lim x0 g(x, λ) (7.11) In Eq. (7.11), we obtained B for the case of x approaching zero. In case of an arbitrary but ﬁnite depth x, the value of B becomes g(x, λ). Under continuous light illumination, the density of holes that is established via photoexcitation including effects of diffusion and recombination can be represented as a function of the depth x as shown in Eq. (7.12). pN(x) = g(x, λ)exp   x Dhτh  = g(x, λ)exp  x Lh  (7.12) Here, we replaced the square root of the product between the hole diffusion con- stant and the recombination life time, Dhτh, by Lh. Lh deﬁnes the distance that can be travelled by a hole via diffusion until it recombines and is called diffusion length. In Fig. 7.6, we show the different types of distances that are related to the hole diffusion in the n-layer. 148 7 Application Limits for the Ideal Conditions Fig. 7.6 Different types of distances that are related to the hole diffusion in the n-layer Using the surface of the n-layer (the front surface) as the base, we deﬁne x as the distance from the front surface (depth). The thickness of the n-layer is set to dN, and the width of the depletion region of the pn junction is W. For the sake of simplicity, we assume that the thickness W of the depletion region is sufﬁciently small compared to the thickness of the n-layer and the diffusion lengths of the pho- togenerated electrons and holes. Additionally, we neglect the carrier annihilation inside the depletion region, because the donors and acceptors in this region provide no electrons and holes. Therefore, collisions between photogenerated carriers and carriers of opposite charge hardly occur. Hence, we treat the width of the depletion region in this chapter as negligible (W = 0). To determine the density of the photoexcited holes in the n-layer that reach the pn junction (i.e., the region around the interface between n- and p-layer) by diffusion, we consider the electronhole density generated by light at point x, g(x, λ) and the transport from the point x to the center of the pn junction at dN, which results in the exponential factor derived above. pN(x) = g(x, λ)exp  dN x Lh  (7.13) By integrating the hole density shown in Eq. (7.13) from 0 to dN (corresponding to the total region of the n-layer), we can determine the hole ﬂux that ﬂows from the n-layer side toward the pn junction and passes the interface. If we multiply this ﬂux by the elementary charge e, we obtain the current density jh(λ) that is generated in the n-layer and ﬂows through the pn junction interface toward the p-layer. jh(λ) = e dN 0 pN(x) dx = e dN 0 g(x, λ)exp  dN x Lh  dx 7.2 The Minority Carrier Diffusion 149 = e 0α Lh αLh 1  exp  dN Lh  exp(αdN) (7.14) In the following, let us consider the diffusion of the minority carriers in the p-layer (that is, the electrons). In Fig. 7.7, we provide the different types of distances that are related to the electron diffusion in the p-layer. Le represents the diffusion length of the electron. We consider that the thickness of the p-layer, dP, is sufﬁciently large compared to the thickness of the n-layer, dN. The density of photoexcited electrons in the p-layer that do not recombine and reach the region of the pn junction by diffusion can be obtained by integrating the excess electron density over the whole p-layer region (from the depth dN of the pn junction to the depth dP + dN). Because we assumed that the p-layer is sufﬁciently thick compared to the n-layer, we can now use the approximation dP + dN = dP to simplify the calculation. In order to discuss the case of the p-layer, we rewrite Eq. (7.12), which is given in terms of the hole density, to obtain an equation for the electron density. Because the depth x considered here lies inside the p-layer, x is larger than the layer thickness dN for the n-layer. Hence, the distance from the location of the pn junction is given by x dN. nP(x) = g(x, λ)exp  x dN Le  (7.15) We can obtain the electron ﬂux that ﬂows from the p-layer side toward the pn junction interface and passes it by integrating Eq. (7.15) over the range from dN to dP. If we multiply this ﬂux by the electrical charge e, we obtain the current density je(λ) that is generated in the p-layer and ﬂows through the pn junction interface toward the n-layer. je(λ) = e dP dN nP(x) dx = e dP dN g(x, λ)exp  x dN Le  dx Fig. 7.7 Different types of distances that are related to the electron diffusion in the p-layer 150 7 Application Limits for the Ideal Conditions = e 0α Le αLe + 1  exp(αdN) exp  αdP dP dN Le  (7.16) je(λ) is positive for the direction along the electron ﬂow. To discuss the photocurrent density jsh(λ) that is generated in the solar cell per illuminated area, we have to combine Eqs. (7.14) and (7.16) by aligning the current directions, which leads to Eq. (7.17). jsh(λ) = jh(λ) je(λ) (7.17) Equation (7.17) describes the photocurrent density jsh(λ) that is generated by incident light at a certain wavelength λ. The above results provide the relationships between light absorption and the layer thicknesses of the n- and p-layer. Finally, we integrate jsh(λ) over the whole wavelength regime to obtain the photocurrent density Jsh generated by the total incident light. Jsh =   0 jsh(λ) dλ (7.18) In the next section, we investigate the details of the trade-off between light absorp- tion and the thickness of the n-layer. Let us see how the thickness of the n-layer or its absorption coefﬁcient affects the photocurrent density Jsh. 7.3 Photocurrent Densities Calculated for Different Materials Under Consideration of the Layer Thickness By employing the equations derived in Sect. 7.2, we now perform calculations for two concrete examples of solar cell materials, silicon (Si) and gallium arsenide (GaAs), and discuss how the absorption coefﬁcient and other factors inﬂuence solar cell applications. The room temperature band-gap energies of Si and GaAs are 1.12 and 1.43 eV, respectively, which correspond to photon wavelengths of 1110 and 867 nm according to Eq. (2.4). For the calculations of the single-junction solar cells in the previous chapters, we used the assumption that the semiconductor absorber layer of the solar cell completely absorbs the light with energy above the band-gap energy, while it cannot absorb any light with smaller energy. However, the degree of light absorption by an actual semiconductor depends on the wavelength as shown in Fig. 7.3. Below, we provide the calculation results that implement Eqs. (7.17) and (7.18) including the actual absorption coefﬁcients and diffusion lengths of each material. The calculations employ the AM1.5G spectrum for the incident light. These results clarify how the thickness dN of the n-layer affects the value of the short-circuit current. 7.3 Photocurrent Densities Calculated for Different Materials  151 (1) The Si single-junction solar cell. The diffusion length of the minority carrier is different for each semiconductor and is inﬂuenced by various factors such as the donor and acceptor doping concentration, the density of other impurities, or also the number of bonding defects in the semicon- ductor crystal. In the present case, we shall use Lh = 10 µm for the diffusion length of the holes in the n-layer and Le = 0.5 µm for the diffusion length of the electrons in the p-layer. These are common values for Si single crystals. The thickness of the p-layer is ﬁxed to dP = 300 µm. Figure 7.8 shows the photocurrent that is obtained for different thicknesses of the n-layer (dN) as a result of the photoexcitation of the electrons and holes in the solar cell under short-circuit condition. The horizontal axis is dN, and the vertical axis shows the photocurrent density Jsh which is obtained from Eq. (7.18). Jsh reaches its maximum for an n-layer thickness of about 4 µm. This means that the optimum n-layer thickness becomes 4 µm as a result of the trade-off relationship between the layer thickness required to absorb the light and the layer thickness that allows transport of electrons and holes via diffusion, which was brieﬂy mentioned in the beginning of this chapter. Let us analyze the effect of the layer thickness by focusing on the photocurrent densities that are generated in the n- and p-layer. In Fig. 7.9, we show the rela- tion between the incident photon ﬂux 0(λ) (gray data), the current density jh(λ) generated in the n-layer (red data), and the current density | je(λ)| generated in the p-layer (black data). Figure 7.9ac show in order the results for the n-layer thick- nesses 1.0, 4.0, and 9.0 µm. We ﬁnd that, as the n-layer becomes thicker, the peaks of the photocurrent densities generated in both the n- and p-layer shift toward the long-wavelength region. The penetration depth for short-wavelength light in Si is relatively small, e.g., on the order of 0.1 µm for the light at 400 nm. On the contrary, as the penetration depth for the light at 800 nm is on the order of 10 µm, the penetration depth of long-wavelength light is relatively large. In case of an n-layer thickness of 1.0 µm, short-wavelength light may be absorbed sufﬁciently in the n-layer, but the long- wavelength light is hardly absorbed. Therefore, the current density jh(λ) that is shown in Fig. 7.9a exhibits a peak at the short-wavelength side. In contrast, for Fig. 7.8 Relation between the thickness of the n-layer and the photocurrent density given in Eq. (7.18) for a Si single-junction solar cell 152 7 Application Limits for the Ideal Conditions (a) Result for an n-layer thickness of 1.0 µm. (b) Result for an n-layer thickness of 4.0 µm. (c) Result for an n-layer thickness of 9.0 µm. Fig. 7.9 Relation between the n-layer thickness and the photocurrent densities given in Eqs. (7.14) and (7.16) for a Si single-junction solar cell thick n-layers such as shown in Fig. 7.9c, the hole density that is generated in the n-layer increases signiﬁcantly because the long-wavelength light can be absorbed sufﬁciently. However, since the n-layer is thick, the holes that are excited near the surface of the n-layer by short-wavelength light have a higher possibility to collide and recombine with electrons during their diffusion toward the pn junction interface. Therefore, the holes generated by short-wavelength light hardly diffuse to the pn 7.3 Photocurrent Densities Calculated for Different Materials  153 junction in case of a thick n-layer, and the peak position of the hole current density jh(λ) shifts toward the long-wavelength region. In case of the Si solar cell that is considered here, the diffusion length of the holes inside the n-layer is twenty times that of the electrons in the p-layer. Therefore, the jh(λ) for the optimum n-layer thickness is larger than the corresponding | je(λ)|. (2) The GaAs single-junction solar cell. Here, we shall assume a diffusion length of Lh = 3.5 µm for the holes in the n- layer and a diffusion length of Le = 1.2 µm for the electrons in the p-layer. We vary the thickness dN for the n-layer and the thickness dP for the p-layer is ﬁxed to 300 µm, which is the same condition as used in the case for Si. The photocurrent that establishes due to the photoexcitation of the electrons and holes in the single-junction solar cell under short-circuit condition is shown in Fig. 7.10. Here, we use the same representation as in Fig. 7.8, namely the horizontal axis represents dN and the vertical axis represents the photocurrent density that can be obtained from Eq. (7.18), Jsh. The Jsh of GaAs is maximized for a dN around 0.3 µm. Compared to the optimum n-layer thickness of the Si solar cell (4 µm), this is about one tenth of the thickness. As explained in Figs. 7.2 and 7.3, GaAs is a material that absorbs visible light stronger than Si. Since GaAs can absorb the same amount of light by a thinner layer, a smaller optimum dN is obtained. As in the case for the Si solar cell, we analyze the effect of the layer thickness from the viewpoint of the photocurrent densities generated in the n- and p-layer. Figure 7.11 shows the relation between the incident photon ﬂux 0(λ), the current density jh(λ) generated in the n-layer, and the current density | je(λ)| generated in the p-layer. Figure 7.11ac show in order the results for the n-layer thicknesses 0.1, 0.3, and 0.9 µm. For a thicker n-layer, the peak wavelengths of the photocurrent densities generated in both n- and p-layer shift toward the long-wavelength region, which is the same tendency as observed for the Si solar cell. In the present GaAs solar cell, the diffusion length of the holes inside the n-layer is about three times longer than that of the electrons inside the p-layer. Therefore, jh(λ) at the optimum n-layer thickness is larger than the corresponding | je(λ)|, which is the same result as for the Si solar cell. However, compared to the difference between jh(λ) and | je(λ)| observed in the Si solar cell, the difference of jh(λ) | je(λ)| in the GaAs solar cell is smaller. Fig. 7.10 Relation between the n-layer thickness and the photocurrent density given in Eq. (7.18) for the GaAs single-junction solar cell 154 7 Application Limits for the Ideal Conditions (a) Result for an n-layer thickness of 0.1 µm. (b) Result for an n-layer thickness of 0.3 µm. (c) Result for an n-layer thickness of 0.9 µm. Fig. 7.11 Relation between the n-layer thickness and photocurrent densities given in Eqs. (7.14) and (7.16) for a GaAs single-junction solar cell From the above calculation results, we can understand the trade-off relationship betweenthesemiconductorthicknessrequiredtoabsorblightandthedistancethathas to be travelled by the generated electrons and holes via diffusion. The relationships between the largest photocurrent density Jsh, the corresponding n-layer thickness (which is the optimum n-layer thickness), the materials absorption coefﬁcient, and the diffusion length of the minority carrier are summarized in the following two statements: 7.3 Photocurrent Densities Calculated for Different Materials  155  As the absorption coefﬁcient of the material becomes larger, the optimum n-layer becomes thinner.  The relative intensities of the photocurrents | je| and jh that constitute the Jsh at the optimum layer thickness depend on the diffusion lengths, and the photocurrent carried by the carrier with the longer diffusion length has a larger contribution. Let us compare the photocurrent considered in the previous chapters with the photocurrent that accounts for the trade-off between absorption and diffusion length, which was introduced in this chapter. Figure 7.12a is the comparison for Si, and Fig. 7.12b is that for GaAs. For both Si and GaAs, the photocurrent density given by Eq. (7.17) is smaller than the photocurrent density employed up to Chap. 6. In the present chapter, we introduced the semiconductors light absorption coefﬁcient as one example of the factors that can lower the performance of solar cells. This coefﬁcient differs for every material and is an important factor besides the transmission and thermalization losses, which were introduced in Chap. 3. Besides these factors, there exist various origins that lead to losses in solar cells such as the reﬂection loss mentioned in Chap. 3, the limited minority carrier diffusion length explained in Sect. 7.2, or also the recombination losses that occur at the semiconductor surface and interface due Fig. 7.12 Comparison between the photocurrent density employed up to Chap. 6 and the photocurrent density deﬁned by Eq. (7.17) for different absorber materials (Si and GaAs). a Comparison between the photon ﬂux absorbed by thick Si (gray data) and the current extracted via the diffusion process in Si (black data). b Comparison between the photon ﬂux absorbed by thick GaAs (gray data) and the current extracted via the diffusion process in GaAs (black data) 156 7 Application Limits for the Ideal Conditions to a discontinuity in the crystal. However, the restrictions imposed by the trade-off mentionedinthischapter,i.e.,thatbetweenthelayerthicknessrequiredforabsorption and the diffusion-limited transport, can be relaxed by fabricating materials with larger diffusion lengths. By solving such issues step by step, the conversion efﬁciencies of the actual solar cells can approach their theoretical conversion efﬁciencies. This chapter is not intended to deny the theoretical efﬁciency limit. With this chapter, we wanted to show the reader that a detailed analysis of the different types of losses in solar cells provides strategies to compensate them and reach higher conversion efﬁciencies. We pray that the development of highly efﬁcient solar cells serves humanity and changes our future for the better. References 1. Green MA, Hishikawa Y, Warta W, Dunlop ED, Levi DH, Hohl-Ebinger J, Ho-Baillie AWY (2018) Solar cell efﬁciency tables (version 52). Prog Photovolt Res Appl 26(7):427436 2. Polyanskiy MN (2008) Refractive index database. https://refractiveindex.info. Accessed 15 Apr 2019 3. Anderson BL, Anderson RL (2004) Fundamentals of semiconductor devices. McGraw-Hill, New York Chapter 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors Abstract The solar cells that are discussed in this book are based on semiconduc- tors. The degree of difﬁculty in the explanation of the properties of semiconductors greatly depends on the starting point of the explanations. In this book, we start with the fact that a semiconductor is formed by a valence band which is completely ﬁlled with electrons and an empty conduction band, both bands being separated by a characteristic energy gap. First, we shall investigate the behavior of the bands in the representative semiconductor silicon (Si) to clarify the band-gap concept. Then, we provide explanations on the intrinsic semiconductors which contain no impu- rities, and the extrinsic semiconductors wherein impurity atoms with a different number of valence electrons are added. Within the extrinsic semiconductors, we distinguish between the n-type semiconductor with excess electrons that are deliv- ered to the conduction band and the p-type semiconductor with the so-called holes (i.e., missing electrons) that are delivered to the valence band. Regarding these two classes of semiconductors with different electronic conditions, we clarify the details about the density of electrons and holes, their distributions, and the so-called Fermi level (which is the energy level corresponding to an electron occupation probability of 50%). We also consider the transport of electrons and holes inside the semicon- ductor. Finally, we derive the characteristics of the pn junction, which connects an n-type semiconductor with a p-type semiconductor and is commonly used for solar cell devices. The present chapter provides detailed explanations from the viewpoint of the semiconductor electronics, which makes it accessible with the knowledge equivalent to that of a third-year undergraduate student. With respect to the structure of the present book, not all details mentioned in this chapter are required for the understanding of the other chapters. In other words, the calculation of the energy conversion efﬁciency of a solar cell, which is the target of the present book, is based on a relatively independent approach. The reader may omit this chapter, or regard it as a guide to ﬁnd concrete ideas for improving the conversion efﬁciencies of semi- conductor solar cells. In order to enable an independent study of this chapter on semiconductors, we again deﬁne all variables of the previous chapters. Keywords Band gap  Extrinsic semiconductor  Fermi level  Carrier density  Drift and diffusion current  pn junction  Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2019 T. Kita et al., Energy Conversion Efﬁciency of Solar Cells, Green Energy and Technology, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-13-9089-0_8 157 158 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors 8.1 The Semiconductor Band Gap In the above, we brieﬂy mentioned that a semiconductor is formed by a valence band which is completely ﬁlled with electrons and an empty conduction band, and both bands are separated by a characteristic energy gap. However, this is a rather ambiguous deﬁnition. The most important point in this chapter is the degree of the ﬁlling of the bands with electrons, and this will be speciﬁed in the following. First, we shall conﬁrm the outline of the semiconductor band structure. The electron orbitals around the atom core are arranged in shells which are, in order from low to high energies, the K shell, the L shell, the M shell, and further shells. In terms of the main quantum number n as deﬁned by quantum mechanics, these shells correspond to 1, 2, 3, and so on. Actually, each shell contains a different number of electron orbitals, which are deﬁned by the azimuth quantum number. The number of electrons that ﬁt in a certain shell is deﬁned by quantum numbers. For larger shells with higher energy, the number of electrons that ﬁt into them increases, i.e., 2 for the K shell, 8 for the L shell, and 18 for the M shell. The number of electrons that can be accommodated in a certain shell is determined by the following set of rules. Firstly, the azimuth quantum number l is an integer number and starts from 0. These numbers represent states which are named, in order, s orbital, p orbital, d orbital, f orbital, and so on. Secondly, the azimuth quantum number l assumes values between 0 and n 1. Finally, each orbital (which is deﬁned by l) can contain up to 2(2l + 1) electrons. Silicon (Si) is the most frequently used semiconductor. The atomic number of Si is 14, and thus, it has 14 electrons. The K shell is ﬁlled with 2 electrons, and the L shell is ﬁlled with 8 electrons, which means that they are completely ﬁlled. The M shell can contain 18 electrons, but there are only 4 electrons left for distribution in the orbitals of the M shell since the other occupy the K and L shells. These 4 electrons that ﬁt in the most outer shell are called valence electrons and have very important functions with respect to the semiconductor properties. When we investigate the electrons in the M shell of Si in more detail, we ﬁnd that 2 electrons are in the s orbital and 2 in the p orbital. This is for the case of a single Si atom. However, if the Si atoms come close to each other during the crystallization, their interaction becomes possible and the s and p orbitals mix. This sp hybridization results in four equivalent orbitals (hybrid orbitals). Due to the Pauli exclusion principle, these 4 electrons are distributed equivalently in the hybridized orbitals. The orbitals of the electrons equally extend along the four directions toward the vertices of a regular tetrahedron with the atom core being in the center of the tetrahedron. This hybrid orbital is stable if completely ﬁlled by a total of 8 electrons (2 electrons from the s orbital and 6 electrons from the p orbital). In other words, 2 electrons are in each of the four hybrid orbitals elongated along the tetrahedral directions. The 4 electrons are also responsible for the physics that connect the single Si atoms. The regular tetrahedral structure as shown in Fig. 8.1 represents the most balanced placement of the electrons at the outmost part of the Si atoms. This structure is the same as that of 8.1 The Semiconductor Band Gap 159 Fig. 8.1 Crystal structure of Si (left panel) and the shared electrons (right panel). The right panel depicts the tetrahedral bonds in a planar scheme diamond and thus also called diamond structure. Diamond is made up of carbon (C) which belongs to the same group IV elements as Si. The Si atoms form bonds by sharing one of the four valance electrons with each of thefournearestneighbors.Thebondsthatareformedinsuchawayarecalledcovalent bonds. The charge of the inner core without the 4 electrons used for the bonds is +4e (e = 1.61019 C). Therefore, the negative charge of the electrons located between the atoms attracts the neighboring atoms via Coulomb interaction. The reader may wonder why the covalent electrons are located between the atoms. The Coulomb potential (energy that depends on the relative location) reaches its maximum in the area between the atoms, and thus, the kinetic energy of the electrons is minimized in this area. Because the total energy of the electrons is constant, the probability for being located in that area is largest. This is a rather rough model, but sufﬁcient for the present purpose. 160 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors Fig. 8.2 Coulomb potential and electronic band structure formed by the connected Si atoms The Coulomb potential between the atoms can be imagined as shown in Fig. 8.2. It shows six Si atoms that are aligned in a row and have formed bonds. The source of the Coulomb potential between the atoms is of course the Coulomb force F, i.e., the force that induces the attraction between positive and negative charges. The Coulomb force is inversely proportional to the squared of the distance r between the charges, i.e., F 1/r2. On the other hand, since the Coulomb force is the negative of the ﬁrst derivative of the Coulomb potential EP, we have F = EP and can assume the vacuum level EVAC for r , resulting in EP EVAC 1/r. By adding these six potentials for the six different atom locations, we obtain the black solid curve in Fig. 8.2 and at the crystal surfaces at both sides the EP changes according to EVAC 1/r. The bands formed by the electrons in the core with main quantum numbers n = 1, 2 are localized at the Si atoms, but the 4 electrons that accompany each Si core in the outmost shell with n = 3 can escape the conﬁnement by the Coulomb potential. Thus, they are not localized at a single Si atom, but extend to the neighboring atoms and contribute to the bonds via the interaction explained above. The band gap opens due to the interaction between the electron orbitals and forms a valence band that is completely ﬁlled with electrons and a conduction band without electrons. Here, we will not further elaborate these interactions. The energy difference that represents the band gap, Eg, depends on the semicon- ductor material. In Table 8.1, we compare the Eg of semiconductors that are com- monly employed in solar cells. Since the band-gap energy Eg is extremely small, it is expressed in units of electronvolt (eV), which is equivalent to the energy of 1.6  1019 J obtained by accelerating one electron using 1 V. Regarding the relation between the wavelength of light and its energy, the wavelength range of visible light (400800 nm) corresponds to an energy range of about 3.11.6 eV as explained in Sect. 2.1. If we include the near-infrared light with even smaller energies, this energy range of light almost covers the band gaps of the main semiconductors. We might say that this fortunate constellation has enabled the realization of various optical devices based on semiconductors such as the solar cells. 8.1 The Semiconductor Band Gap 161 Table 8.1 Band-gap energies of several important semiconductors Semiconductor Eg Ge 0.67 eV Si 1.12 eV InP 1.35 eV GaAs 1.43 eV GaN 3.39 eV Fig. 8.3 Absorption of light that enters Si (band-gap energy 1.12 eV) We shall now consider the situation of light falling on a semiconductor with such a band gap. In Fig. 8.3, we show the process of light absorption in a semiconductor for both illumination by light with energy above Eg (short-wavelength light) and illumination by light with energy below Eg (long-wavelength light). Here, EC is the energy of the lower edge of the conduction band, and EV is the upper edge of the valence band. The band-gap energy Eg is equal to the difference EC EV. If external light with sufﬁciently large energy is incident on the semiconductor, an electron in the valence band will be excited and is elevated into the conduction band. To be more precise, within the semiconductors there are the so-called direct band-to- band transition semiconductors and the indirect band-to-band transition semiconduc- tors. If the band structure is drawn in the wavevector space, the former type exhibits transitions between conduction band and valence band along the same wavevector 162 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors and latter not. For example, InP, GaAs, and GaN are direct band-to-band transition semiconductors, but Si and also Ge are indirect band-to-band transition semiconduc- tors. Because the wavenumber of the initial and ﬁnal states in optical transitions of indirect band-gap semiconductors is different, these optical transitions require the help of phonons. Therefore, the intensities of their optical transitions such as absorp- tion are weaker than those of the direct transition types, and the consequences for the solar cell were explained in Chap. 7. Additionally, we note that the symmetry of the electron orbitals in the initial and ﬁnal states has to be different in order to complete the optical transition between the bands. This is a very important factor in the design of advanced solar cells that employ semiconductor quantum structures. Incontrast,iftheenergyoftheincidentlightissmallerthanthatofthesemiconduc- tor band gap, the light is not absorbed by the semiconductor and will be transmitted without being used. The color of the Sun as seen through a semiconductor with a large band gap is the color of the light that passed the semiconductor without being absorbed. In Fig. 8.3, we consider the illumination of Si (Eg = 1.12 eV) using light with different energies (different wavelengths). Incident light with an energy of 1 eV (i.e., a wavelength of 1.24 μm) is not absorbed and simply passes the semiconductor because the energy of the incident light is smaller than Eg. This is called transmis- sion. On the other hand, upon illumination with light at 1.2 eV (i.e., a wavelength of 1.03 μm), electrons are generated in the conduction band by exciting electrons from the valence band. These electrons are responsible for electrical conduction in the semiconductor. The transmission of the sunlight with energy smaller than the band-gap energy of the semiconductor is equivalent to a loss for the solar cell. 8.2 The Intrinsic Semiconductor A semiconductor that contains neither impurity atoms with a number of valence electrons different from that of the host crystal nor such crystal defects is called intrinsic semiconductor. Therefore, the intrinsic semiconductor crystal itself ini- tially contains no free electrons and also no missing electrons (i.e., holes) in excess. An electron in the conduction band can be generated via excitation from the valence band using light or heat. The hole in the valence band is the missing electron induced by this excitation process. Hence, the number of electrons in the conduction band is always equal to the number of holes in the valence band. Under the condition of absent light illumination (dark condition) and simultaneous absolute zero tem- perature (0 K1), any possible excitation is prevented. In this situation, there are no electrons in the conduction band, and the valence band is completely ﬁlled with elec- trons. If we deﬁne n0 as the electron density in the conduction band under thermal equilibrium and use p0 as the corresponding hole density in the valence band, we can express the abovementioned condition of equality as 1The unit of the absolute temperature is pronounced Kelvin. 273 K corresponds to 0 C. 8.2 The Intrinsic Semiconductor 163 n0 = p0 = ni (8.1) Here, ni is intrinsic carrier density, which is equal to both the electron density and the hole density in the intrinsic semiconductor under thermal equilibrium. The carrier density at a certain ﬁnite temperature is discussed in detail in the next section. Figure 8.4 illustrates the excitation of an electron in real space (upper panel) and the corresponding situation of the excitation from the valence band to the conduction band in the band diagram (lower panel). If, for example, light with energy above the band gap enters the semiconductor, a part of the electrons that completely ﬁll the valence band is excited to the conduction band. The excited electrons can move freely inside the semiconductor crystal. However, since there is an electron deﬁcit in the valence band (i.e., holes exist in the valence band), an electron that is freely moving around may once again encounter a hole with a certain probability. If they meet, the electron ﬁlls the hole. This process is called recombination. When we trace this process in the band structure (the reverse direction of the blue arrow in Fig. 8.4), we ﬁnd that the electron in the conduction band loses energy as it approaches the hole which energetically lies below. This is called energy relaxation. In this energy relaxation process, the excess energy with amount equal to the band-gap energy is removed from the electronhole pair by the emission of light or heat. The process that emits light is called radiative recombination (or also luminescent recombination), and the process that emits heat is called non-radiative recombination. The number of electrons that are generated in the conduction band via excitation is proportional to the number of quantized states of the incident light (photons). In the ideal case where each single photon generates one electron and one hole, the so-called quantum efﬁciency equals 100%. However, under real-world conditions, 100% is not reached. Let us consider how many photons are actually contained in a certain light beam. For example, the sunlight intensity reaching the Earths ground surface is about 100 mW per cm2. The unit of the light intensity is Watt (W), which is equivalent to the energy transported by the light per second. The unit of the energy is Joule (J). In other words, illumination by light with a power density of 100 mW per cm2 meansthatanenergyof100mJenterstheareaof1cm2 everysecond.Becausethe sunlight contains many different wavelengths as a result of the black-body radiation, an accurate calculation of the number of photons requires a consideration of the solar spectrum. Since our aim is to get an idea of the photons, here we consider that the light with a power of 100 mJ/(s cm2) only consists of monochromatic green light at about 500 nm. If we use 2.5 eV for the photon energy, the number of photons contained in the light with a power of 100 mW that enters the area of 1 cm2 within a second is 100  103 J 2.5 eV   1.6  1019 J/eV  = 2.5  1017 photons (8.2) In other words, illumination with such a light generates a similar high number of electrons and holes in the semiconductor. 164 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors Fig. 8.4 Excitation of the electron from the valence band to the conduction band represented in the band diagram (lower panel) and visualization of the corresponding excitation of the electron in real space (upper panel) 8.3 The Extrinsic Semiconductor Semiconductors that contain a small number of atoms (impurities) with a different number of valence electrons are called extrinsic semiconductors. They are some- times also termed impurity semiconductors. Impurity atoms that provide electrons in excess are called donors, and semiconductors containing these are called n-type semiconductors (see Fig. 8.5a). On the other hand, impurity atoms that induce elec- tron deﬁcits (which is equivalent with providing holes in excess) are called accep- tors, and semiconductors containing these are called p-type semiconductors (see 8.3 The Extrinsic Semiconductor 165 Fig. 8.5 a The n-type semiconductor and b the p-type semiconductor Fig. 8.5b). In an extrinsic semiconductor, we have n0 = p0. In particular, for an n-type semiconductor n0  p0 holds, and for a p-type semiconductor n0  p0. Consider, for example, Si which is a semiconductor belonging to group IV. If we add a group-V element like phosphorus (P), each P atom contributes one excess electron because it has ﬁve valence electrons in the outmost shell. Hence we obtain n0  p0. On the other hand, if we add a group-III element like boron (B), which has only 3 valence electrons in the outmost shell, each B atom results in one missing valence electron. Since this is equivalent to contribution of one hole, n0 becomes smaller than p0. These two examples are shown in Fig. 8.5. In case of the n-type semiconductor Si including P, one electron out of the ﬁve valence electrons of P cannot be delivered to any of the bonds, and thus, it is left over. If the temperature is sufﬁciently low, this excess electron is attracted by the Coulomb force of the P+ ion (the P atom with a missing electron). However, if the 166 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors heat energy exceeds the Coulomb potential of the P+ at a certain elevated tempera- ture, the attracting force is not sufﬁcient anymore to trap the electron at the P+ ion and the electron can diffuse freely. This situation is explained later in more detail. The difference with respect to the intrinsic semiconductor is that the impurity semi- conductor requires no hole to generate free electrons, and thus, there is no hole that might induce a recombination. In contrast, for the case of the p-type semiconductor Si including B, the impurity atomhasonlythreevalenceelectrons.Therefore,oneofthefourbondsofthediamond structure lacks an electron, which constitutes the hole. Similar to the case of the n- type semiconductor, if the temperature is low enough the hole is attracted by the B ion. However, also here the hole will move away from the Bion if the temperature sufﬁciently increases. The subtle difference to the n-type semiconductor is that a new hole forms in a neighboring bond by ﬁlling the location of the present hole with the neighbors valence electron. The continuous repetition of this process represents the transport of the hole in the valence band in real space. 8.4 Energy Levels of Impurities and Carrier Generation At very low temperatures, the donor of the n-type semiconductor is accompanied by an excess electron due to the Coulomb attraction. In this case, the donor is electrically neutral. However, the donor ionizes if the temperature sufﬁciently increases because the electron gains thermal energy and moves freely away from the location of the donor. The acceptor in the p-type semiconductor behaves similar. In the following, we shall investigate the temperatures at which the donors and acceptors ionize and the carriers can start to move around freely. The ionization is determined by the relation between the magnitudes of the thermal energy and the energetic depth of the impurity energy level. First, consider the n-type semiconductor. In terms of ionization, the donor can be interpreted as a monovalent cation together with an electron and thus behaves like the hydrogen atom with atomic number 1. To proceed, we analyze the interaction between the electron with electric charge e and the donor ion with electric charge +e via the Coulomb potential. The Coulomb force F can be represented as shown in Eq. (8.3). F = e2 4πεr2 (8.3) Here, r is the distance between the electron and the donor ion, and ε is the dielectric constant of the semicondcutor.2 Because the relation between the Coulomb force F and the Coulomb potential EP is F = EP, we ﬁnd 2If we deﬁne c as the speed of light, the vacuum permittivity ε0 is given by 107/4 πc2, which results in about 8.854  1012 F/m. The dielectric constant of a material ε is the product between the vacuum permittivity and a characteristic relative permittivity εr; ε = εrε0. 8.4 Energy Levels of Impurities and Carrier Generation 167 Fig. 8.6 Coulomb potential EP for an electron in the vicinity of the donor ion EP = EC  e2 4πεr (8.4) Here, we assumed that the energy level required for the electron to move around freely (i.e., without being conﬁned) is the energy of the lower edge of the conduction band, EC. Figure 8.6 shows the visualization of EP calculated using Eq. (8.4). Simultaneously, the Coulomb force (centripetal force) is exactly compensated by the centrifugal force of the electron with mass3 m e and a velocity v in the circular orbit with radius r, that is, e2 4πεr2 = m ev2 r (8.5) If we employ this relation to determine the kinetic energy EK, we obtain the following result: EK = 1 2m ev2 = e2 8πεr (8.6) Consequently, we can express the total energy of the system E as the sum of the potential energy EP and the kinetic energy EK, which can be reformulated as shown below. 3The mass m e of an electron in the conduction band of a semiconductor is different from the rest mass of an electron in vacuum, m0 = 9.11  1031 kg. The mass of an electron inside a crystal is called effective mass, which accounts for the movement of the electron in a weakly bound state in the periodic potential of the crystal lattice. 168 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors E = EP + EK =  EC  e2 4πεr  + e2 8πεr = EC  e2 8πεr (8.7) Although the angular momentum L can take any arbitrary number in the classi- cal theory, the present calculation considers atomic scales. Therefore, this value is increasing stepwise due to quantization as proposed in the Bohr model. If we assume that the integrated angular momentum for a complete orbit is a multiple of the Planck constant h, we have the restriction L = m evr = nℏ. Here, n is a positive integer and ℏ= h/2π. Using L = m evr, we obtain the following from Eq. (8.5). m ev2 = e2 4πεr m2 e v2r2 mer2 = e2 4πεr L2 mer = e2 4πε r = 4πε mee2 L2 (8.8) If we perform the quantization of the angular momentum by substituting L = nℏ into the above equation, the quantized radius rn can be represented as shown in Eq. (8.9). rn = 4πε mee2 n2ℏ2 (8.9) By replacing r in Eq. (8.7) by the quantized rn, the energies of the quantized levels can be written as Eq. (8.10). En = EC  e2 8πεrn = EC  m ee4 32π2ε2  1 n2ℏ2 (8.10) In the above, we derived the radii of the donor orbits and their energy levels by employing the model of the hydrogen atom. The unique feature of this model is that the radius rn of the orbital is proportional to the quantum number n2, and the energy level is inverse proportional to n2. The energy levels of the electron that are obtained using Eq. (8.10) for the addition of a P+ ion into a Si crystal are shown in Fig. 8.7. The left panel shows the ground state energy ED of the P donor. This energy level lies within the band gap and corresponds to the lowest conﬁned state with energy E1 as shown in the right panel. The radius r1 of the orbit in the ground state energy is 0.57 nm. According to the calculation, ED is located 0.107 eV below the bottom of the conduction band. However, this value is larger than the experimentally obtained value of 0.045 eV. The reason is that we employed the macroscopic permittivity ε 8.4 Energy Levels of Impurities and Carrier Generation 169 Fig. 8.7 Energy levels that form upon adding P to Si despite r1 being almost comparable to the lattice constant of Si, 0.543 nm. For excited states with n 2, the rn becomes sufﬁciently large compared to the lattice constant, and the En also agrees well with the experimental values. As shown in the above, the hydrogen model is sufﬁciently accurate for the qualitative understanding of the formation of the energy levels of the donors. The ground state energy level ED of the donor is located at shallow energies below the conduction band minimum, which enables thermal activation (excitation) of electrons even at temperatures on the order of 300 K (27 C, room temperature). The temperature dependence of the carrier distribution inside the band is discussed in detail in the next section. After excitation from the donor ground state to the conduction band, the electrons are not conﬁned anymore and can move freely in the conduction band as shown in Fig. 8.8. These thermally activated electrons contribute to the electrical conductivity. Fig. 8.8 Generation of free electrons (which are not conﬁned to donors) via thermal excitation. The left panel shows an electron that is conﬁned to a donor. The right panel shows the free electron and the positively ionized donor at the instant of excitation 170 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors Fig. 8.9 Generation of free holes (which are not conﬁned to the acceptors) via thermal excitation. The left panel shows a hole that is conﬁned to an acceptor. The right panel shows a free hole and the negatively ionized acceptor at the instant of excitation We can consider the case of adding an acceptor impurity in exactly the same way. The energy levels are given by the following equation: En = EV + m ee4 32π2ε2  1 n2ℏ2 (8.11) The energy levels that are formed by the acceptor within the band gap are shown in Fig. 8.9. Similar to the case of the donors, the ground state energy level EA of the acceptor is slightly above the valence band maximum, and thus can even be excited at room temperature. After thermal activation from the acceptors, the holes are not conﬁned anymore and can move freely in the valence band as shown in Fig. 8.9. These holes contribute to the electrical conductivity of the semiconductor. Here, we note that the current is carried by the negatively charged electrons. Each single electron carries a charge of 1.6  1019 C. Since the current is the charge transported per unit time, the number of moving electrons corresponds to the current intensity. If we now deﬁne J as the current per unit area, the current density can be expressed with the electron density n and the average electron velocity veas shown in Eq. (8.12). J = enve (8.12) Further, vecan be expressed with the velocity of each electron vei and the volume V, ve= 1 V  i vei 8.4 Energy Levels of Impurities and Carrier Generation 171 In other words, if a band is completely ﬁlled with electrons, each electron with vei has a corresponding electron with vei,4 and thus, ve= 0. Consequently, J = 0 and a current cannot be transported in this band. Additionally, there are no electrons in the conduction band of an intrinsic semiconductor at low temperatures in a dark environment, and thus, the conduction band also transports no current. However, in case of an n-type semiconductor, current ﬂows at ﬁnite temperatures because free electrons exist in the conduction band after excitation from the donor levels. Now, we shall consider the situation in a p-type semiconductor. At ﬁnite temper- atures, electrons are excited from the valence band to the acceptor levels. This leaves a missing electron behind in the valence band, which is the hole. Since there has to be an electron in the valence band with exactly the opposite velocity as that of the missing electron, a current ﬂows due to this electron. The velocity of the electron that has lost its pairing partner due to the hole generation is represented as vuei. Thus, the current J in the valence band becomes J = e V  i vuei (8.13) If we deﬁne vhi as the velocity of the hole, we can write  i vuei =  i (vei vhi) and obtain J = e V  i vuei = e V  i (vei vhi) = e V  i vei   i vhi  = e V  i vhi = epvh (8.14) Here, p is the hole density and vh is the average velocity of the holes. In other words, the current in a p-type semiconductor is carried by the charge +e of the hole. 4To prove this, we have to provide details on the relation between the wavenumber K and the energy E. The energy of a particle propagates with the velocity of the center of mass, which is called group velocity and deﬁned as 1 ℏ dE dK . Because the energy dispersion E(K) is symmetric with respect to K, each vei has a corresponding vei. To avoid any misunderstandings, this textbook omits statements regarding the energy dispersion in the momentum space. 172 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors 8.5 The Carrier Distribution Within a Band So far, we treated the whole conduction band (and the whole valence band) as a single entity. We did not mention anything about a possible change in the density of states, which can be energetically occupied by the electrons. However, the density of states actually depends on the energy. If we assume that electrons inside the semiconductor can move like they can propagate in vacuum, the density of states for electrons in the conduction band is given by the following equation: De(E) = 1 2π2 2m e ℏ2 3/2 E EC (8.15) The derivation of this equation for the density of states is not a difﬁcult task, but requires the energy dispersion curve of the free electron in terms of the momentum space, which is omitted in this book. The density of states for the electron is zero at EC (the energy at the bottom of the conduction band) and increases for higher energies in proportion to the square root of the energy increase relative to EC. Similarly, the density of states for the holes in the valence band is given by the following equation: Dh(E) = 1 2π2 2m h ℏ2 3/2 EV E (8.16) These energy dependences of the density of states for both carrier types are shown in Fig. 8.10. The band gap is the energy region between the upper edge of the valence band and the lower edge of the conduction band. The density of states of the electrons increases as their energy increases and separates from the lower edge of the conduction band, while the density of states of the holes increases as their energy separates from the upper edge of the conduction band toward the inside of the valence band. The carrier density can be obtained through multiplying the density of states by the carrier distribution function. The electron distribution function is given by the following equation according to the FermiDirac statistics: fe(E) = 1 1 + exp  EEf kT  (8.17) Here, Ef is the Fermi level, T is the absolute temperature, and k is the so-called the Boltzmann constant (1.38  1023 J/K). In Fig. 8.11, we show the fe(E) calculated using Eq. (8.17) for different temperatures. As proven later, the Fermi level in an intrinsic semiconductor is located almost at the center of the band gap. Therefore, Fig. 8.11 depicts the case of an intrinsic semiconductor. At 0 K, the occupation probability of energies below the Fermi level is unity for the electron and no electrons exist above the Fermi level. The Fermi level corresponds to that 8.5 The Carrier Distribution Within a Band 173 Fig. 8.10 Density of states for the electrons in the conduction band and the density of states for the holes in the valence band energy where the occupation probability becomes exactly 1/2. An important feature is that the shape of the distribution function near the Fermi level becomes smoother as the temperature increases. In terms of the present ﬁgure, temperatures as high as T 2 or T 3 are sufﬁcient for a ﬁnite occupation of the conduction band states with electrons. This nonzero distribution in the conduction band represents the thermal excitation of electrons. We note that the thermal energy is given by kT, which is about 26 meV at room temperature (300 K). On the other hand, for large energies above EC, the denominator E Ef in Eq. (8.17) is on the order of 1 eV. Therefore, the approximation E Ef kT is valid. Consequently, the electron distribution function inside the conduction band can be approximated as shown in Eq. (8.18). fe(E) exp  E Ef kT  (8.18) This is the so-called Boltzmann distribution (Boltzmann approximation). Because the probability for a state being not occupied by an electron equals the probability for occupation with a hole, the distribution function of the hole can be expressed as 174 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors Fig. 8.11 Electron distribution function at different temperatures fh(E) = 1 fe(E) = 1  1 1 + exp  EEf kT  = 1 1 + exp  EfE kT  (8.19) Similar to the case for the electrons, the valence band is occupied by a ﬁnite number of holes at elevated temperatures. Because the denominator of Eq. (8.19), Ef E, is in the order of eV for energies below EV (the top of the valence band) that are sufﬁciently separated from the Fermi level, the approximation Ef E kT is valid. Consequently, the hole distribution function in the valence band can be approximated as shown below. fh(E) exp  Ef E kT  (8.20) Byemployingthecorrespondingdensityofstatesanddistributionfunctionderived above, we can calculate the electron and hole densities. The carrier density can be expressed as a function of the energy by using the product between the density of states and the distribution function. The energy distributions of electron density and hole density are deﬁned by two Eqs. (8.21) and (8.22), respectively. 8.5 The Carrier Distribution Within a Band 175 Fig. 8.12 Carrier density can be expressed as the product between the density of states and the distribution function n(E) = De(E) fe(E) (8.21) p(E) = Dh(E) fh(E) (8.22) The calculation results for elevated temperatures are plotted in Fig. 8.12. The product between the density of states of the electrons in the conduction band and the electron distribution function results in the electron density. As the energy exceeds that of the band edge and becomes larger, the electron density is initially governed by the increasing density of states and reaches its peak at E EC = kT/2,5 but then it is governed by the decrease of the occupation probability and starts to decrease. The energy distribution of the hole in the valence band behaves similarly. The total electron and hole densities are obtained by integration over the energy space and given by Eqs. (8.23) and (8.24), respectively. n0 =  EC De(E) fe(E)dE = 1 2π2 2m e ℏ2  3 2  EC E EC exp  E Ef kT  dE = NC exp  Ec Ef kT  (8.23) 5The Reader is encouraged to solve this as a simple exercise. 176 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors p0 = EV  Dh(E) fh(E)dE = 1 2π2 2m h ℏ2  3 2 EV  EV E exp  Ef E kT  dE = NV exp  Ef EV kT  (8.24) Here, Nc is the so-called effective density of states for the electrons, and Nv that for the holes. They are deﬁned by the equations given below. NC = 2 m ekT 2πℏ2 3/2 (8.25) NV = 2 m hkT 2πℏ2 3/2 (8.26) 8.6 The Fermi Level During the discussions in the previous section, we derived the electron and hole densities for the thermal equilibrium condition, n0 and p0. Their product is given by Eq. (8.27), which holds for any semiconductor without degeneration.6 n0 p0 = NCNV exp  Ec Ef kT  exp  Ef EV kT  = NCNV exp  Ec Ev kT  = NCNV exp  Eg kT  (8.27) Because we have n0 = p0 for the intrinsic semiconductor, we can replace the carrier densities by the intrinsic carrier density ni and obtain the following: n0 p0 = n2 i ni = n0 p0 = NCNV exp Eg 2kT (8.28) 6If the impurities added to the semiconductor have a high density, their electron orbitals as deter- mined by Eq. (8.9) tend to overlap. If the orbitals overlap, the discretized impurity levels form a band that has a signiﬁcant energy width. Any extrinsic semiconductor in such a condition is called degenerated semiconductor. In such a degenerated semiconductor, the Fermi level enters the band because the impurity band and the band of the (intrinsic) semiconductor overlap, resulting in a smaller effective band gap. This book does not cover degenerated semiconductors with such impu- rity levels. We only consider the non-degenerated semiconductors whose Fermi levels lie in the band gap. 8.6 The Fermi Level 177 This means that the product of the electron and hole densities in the semiconductor is determined by the effective masses (via the effective density of states), the band gap of the material, and the temperature only. Equation (8.28) is a law that restricts the relative densities of electrons and holes and is called mass action law. Let us determine, for example, the intrinsic carrier density ni for Si at room temperature. The band gap at room temperature is 1.124 eV, the effective mass of the electron is m e = 1.09m0, and the effective mass of the hole is m h = 0.54m0. By inserting these values into Eq. (8.28), we obtain ni = NCNV exp  Eg 2kT  =  2.89  1019 1.01  1019 exp   1.124 2  0.02586  = 6.23  109 cm3 (8.29) Similarly, we ﬁnd ni = 2.0  106 cm3 for GaAs, and ni = 2.7  1013 cm3 for Ge. Next, let us determine the energy Ei of the Fermi level in an intrinsic semicon- ductor. By dividing Eq. (8.23) by Eq. (8.24) and using n0 = p0, we can derive Eq. (8.30). NC NV = exp  EC Ei kT  exp  Ei EV kT  = exp  EC + EV 2Ei kT  (8.30) The Ei determined from this equation is given below. Ei = EC + EV 2 + kT 2 ln NV NC = EC + EV 2 + 3 4kT ln m h me  (8.31) The ﬁrst term on the right-hand side of Eq. (8.31), (EC + EV)/2, directly evi- dences that Ei is located near the center of the band gap. However, not exactly at the center as it is offset by the amount of the second term. For example, in case of Si, the second term is 1.05 meV, which is extremely small compared to the band gap. Consequently, it is usually not problematic to consider that the Fermi level of an intrinsic semiconductor is located at the center of the band gap. In an extrinsic semiconductor, which contains additional impurities, the position of the Fermi level is signiﬁcantly different from the band-gap center. Therefore, the thermal activation of the carriers from the impurities to the bands should become easier. Let us derive the equation that describes this behavior. First, we express the effective density of states in Eqs. (8.23) and (8.24) in terms of the intrinsic carrier density ni. NC = ni exp  EC Ei kT  (8.32) NV = ni exp  Ei EV kT  (8.33) 178 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors By substituting these equations into Eqs. (8.23) and (8.24), we ﬁnd n0 = NC exp  EC Ef kT  = ni exp  EC Ei kT  exp  EC Ef kT  = ni exp  Ef Ei kT  (8.34) p0 = NV exp  Ef EV kT  = ni exp  Ei EV kT  exp  Ef EV kT  = ni exp  Ei Ef kT  (8.35) which lead to the following equations: Ef Ei = kT ln n0 ni  (8.36) Ei Ef = kT ln  p0 ni  (8.37) In case of an n-type semiconductor, electrons are supplied to the conduction band. This implies n0  ni, and therefore, we have E f  Ei; that is, the Fermi level shifts from the band-gap center toward the conduction band. The electron density increases as the Fermi level approaches the conduction band minimum. In contrast, the hole density obeys Eq. (8.37), and thus, the above shift of the Fermi level is accompanied by an exponential decrease in the hole density. As an example, we shall determine the Fermi level and the electron and hole densities at room temperature for Si with an acceptor doping concentration of 1016 cm3. If we assume that all added acceptors are activated and the holes are ejected to the valence band (which is possible at 300 K), the hole density becomes exactly the acceptor density, i.e., p0 = 1.0  1016 cm3. Using n0 = n2 i /p0, we obtain n0 = 3.9  104 cm3. From Eq. (8.24), we obtain Ef EV = kT ln(p0/NV ) = 0.18 eV, and therefore, the Fermi level is located about 0.18 eV above the valence band maximum. 8.7 Temperature Dependence of the Carrier Density In the discussions above, we considered that under thermal equilibrium, all donors and acceptors are ionized and the number of supplied carriers equals the number of added impurities. However, as discussed in Sect. 8.4, the Coulomb force between the carrier and the impurity becomes dominant if the temperature is sufﬁciently low, and then, the impurity behaves neutral. On the other hand, at extremely high temperatures, 8.7 Temperature Dependence of the Carrier Density 179 the excitation exceeds by far that from the impurity levels and direct excitation from the valence band to the conduction band occurs. In the present section, we investigate how the carrier density changes in such conditions with different semiconductor temperatures. In particular, we thoroughly discuss the transition to the intrinsic semiconductor as the temperature rises above that temperature where all impurities ionize. The total charge that arises from the negative and positive charges in a semicon- ductor containing ionized donors and acceptors has to be zero (i.e., the semiconductor itself is neutral). If we assume that all impurities have been ionized, the density of the added impurities and the density of the ionized impurities are equal, and the following condition regarding the electrical neutrality is fulﬁlled. p0 + ND = n0 + NA (8.38) Here, n0 is the electron density, p0 is the hole density, ND is the density of the positively ionized donors, and NA is the density of the negatively ionized acceptors. On the left-hand side of Eq. (8.38), we have the positive charges, and on the right-hand side, we have the negative charges. Using p0 = n2 i /n0, we obtain n2 i n0 n0 + ND NA = 0 n2 0 n0(ND NA) n2 i = 0 (8.39) This is a quadratic equation for n0, and the solution is as follows: n0 = ND NA 2 +  ND NA 2 2 + n2 i (8.40) In case of an n-type semiconductor, we have ND NA, and thus, Eq. (8.40) can be approximated as Eq. (8.41). n0 = ND 2 +  ND 2 2 + n2 i (8.41) The calculation result for the speciﬁc case of n-type Si is shown in Fig. 8.13. For relatively low temperatures around room temperature (300 K), there is no temperature dependence since all electrons that cannot be used for the bonds have already been removed from the donors and the free electron density equals the donor density. For higher temperatures, the behavior of the intrinsic semiconductor can be observed. Here, the electron density starts to increase because electrons are directly excited from the valence band to the conduction band. The broken curve represents the temperature dependence of the electron density ni in the intrinsic semiconductor. 180 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors Fig. 8.13 Temperature dependence of the electron density in the conduction band of n-type Si for different donor concentrations. As the temperature increases, the temperature dependence starts to resemble that of an intrinsic semiconductor Fig. 8.14 Temperature dependence of the Fermi level in n-type Si. As the temperature increases, the Fermi level separates more and more from the conduction band edge and approaches the Fermi level of the intrinsic semiconductor, Ei, near the center of the band gap Upon the modiﬁcation of the electron density that occurs for increasing tempera- tures, the Fermi level obviously changes as well. Using Eq. (8.23), we can calculate the position of the Fermi level relative to the lower edge of the conduction band according to Eq. (8.42). Ef EC = kT ln  n0 NC  (8.42) The calculated temperature dependence of the Fermi level in n-type Si is shown in Fig. 8.14. For increasing temperatures, the Fermi level separates more and more from the conduction band minimum and asymptotically approaches the Fermi level of the intrinsic semiconductor, Ei, which lies almost at the center of the band gap. To conclude this section, we provide an explanation on the carrier densities at extreme low temperatures. Here, the attracting Coulomb potential from the ionized 8.7 Temperature Dependence of the Carrier Density 181 impurity prevails over the thermal energy, and thus, the impurity stays neutral with- out ejecting the electron. This temperature regime is the regime with incomplete ionization where the carriers freeze out. In this temperature regime, Eq. (8.41) is not valid because it was derived using the assumption that all impurities are ion- ized. Although the carrier density in this temperature regime can also be analyzed in detail, we omit a detailed derivation because the statistics of the electrons conﬁned to the impurities would require considerations that are rather complex. Therefore, we restrict the discussion to qualitative statements. In case of Si, complete ionization of impurities such as phosphorous cannot occur for temperatures below 200 K. Such low temperatures belong to a temperature regime that needs not be considered for devices such as common solar cells. As the temper- ature decreases, the number of impurities that cannot maintain the ionized condition increases more and more, and the carrier density signiﬁcantly drops below the den- sity of the impurities added to the semiconductor. Here, the Fermi level is located in the region between EC and ED instead of being located close to either EC or ED. For reference, below we provide the theoretical results for the temperature dependence of the electron density and the Fermi level in an n-type semiconductor in the freeze-out range with incomplete ionization. n =  NCND 2 exp  EC ED 2kT  (8.43) Ef = EC + ED 2 + kT 2 ln  ND 2NC  (8.44) 8.8 The Currents in a Semiconductor: Drift Current and Diffusion Current In the above sections, we clariﬁed that electron and hole densities become larger if impurities are added to the semiconductor and the temperature is increased. The movementofthesecarriersthroughthesemiconductorvolumeconstitutesthecurrent. The carrier movements can be classiﬁed into the transport of the negatively charged electron and the positively charged hole under an electric ﬁeld, and the transport by carrier diffusion which intends to cancel any spatial inhomogeneity in the electron and hole densities. First, we shall consider the carrier transport via the electric ﬁeld. Imagine a semi- conductor that is connected to a battery as shown in Fig. 8.15. The right edge of the semiconductor is connected to the positive electrode of the battery and the left edge to the negative electrode. Assume that there is no potential barrier at the inter- face between the wire and the semiconductor, which enables a smooth movement of the carriers. This is called Ohmic contact. Because the electric ﬁeld is a vector that is directed from plus to minus, it is directed from right to left as shown in the ﬁgure by the red arrow. The negatively charged electrons are attracted by the positive 182 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors Fig. 8.15 Inside the semiconductor, the current is carried by electrons and holes. The current that runs through the conducting wire is carried by electrons electrode and therefore are transported toward the right side (i.e., opposite to the direction of the electric ﬁeld). In contrast, the positively charged holes are attracted by the negative electrode and move along the direction of the electric ﬁeld toward the left side. Because the deﬁnition of the current is the amount of charge transported per unit time, the ﬂow direction of the negatively charged electrons is opposite to the current direction. The electrons that have left the semiconductor at the right edge of the semiconductor ﬂow through the conducting wire (clockwise in the present case). However, the holes cannot run through the conducting wire. The holes in the semiconductor recombine with the electrons that enter the semiconductor from the wire (at the left edge in the ﬁgure), and thus, the hole is neutralized by the incoming electrons. All holes that have moved toward the left edge are ﬁlled with electrons and vanish. In other words, the current inside the semiconductor is carried by the electrons and holes, and the conducting wire carries the same current by means of electrons only. The current that is generated by such an electric ﬁeld-induced carrier transport is called drift current. The charge that passes the unit area per unit time as a result of the electric ﬁeld, that is, the drift current density J(drift), is given by the following equation: J(drift) = envde + epvdh (8.45) Here, we expressed the current in terms of n and p, which are the electron and hole densities in the steady-state condition. Further, vde and vdh are the drift velocities of the electron and the hole, respectively. If we denote the electric ﬁeld by E, we can express these velocities as μeE and μhE, that is, as multiplication of E by the corresponding carrier mobility. The mobility is a material property that describes how fast of a carrier can be transported under a given electric ﬁeld. By substituting these terms into Eq. (8.45), we obtain J(drift) =  enμn + epμp  E = σ E (8.46) which allows us to deﬁne the conductivity σ. The carrier mobility is reduced by scat- tering as a result of collisions between the conducting carrier and ionized impurities or also phonons, which are quantized lattice vibrations that depend on the crystal temperature. The mobility is proportional to the average time between two collisions 8.8 The Currents in a Semiconductor: Drift Current and Diffusion Current 183 and inversely proportional to the effective mass. In case of Si, Ge, and even GaAs, the electron mobility is larger than the hole mobility. Further, by increasing the impu- rity density, the average time between two subsequent collisions with impurity ions becomes shorter and thus the mobility decreases. The electrons in an n-type semi- conductor are called majority carriers, and the holes are the minority carriers. In contrast, in the p-type semiconductor, the hole constitutes the majority carrier and the electron is the minority carrier. We note that the contribution of the scattering via the impurity ions or phonons depends on the temperature. Upon increase of the temperature, the thermal motion of the carrier is intensiﬁed and its average velocity increases. Due to this, the scattering via the impurity ions decreases initially, but at higher temperatures the number of phonons increases and the resulting phonon scattering leads to a signiﬁcant decrease in the mobility. In the following, we analyze the other carrier transport mechanism, that is, dif- fusion. Diffusion is the transport of carriers from locations with high densities to locations with low densities. The resulting current is called diffusion current. The diffusion current is a current that is generated by the spatial density distribution and the thermal energy of the carriers only. We note that this current is signiﬁcantly dif- ferent from the drift current which is the carrier ﬂow induced by an electric ﬁeld. The current resulting from the density gradient of the carriers is a mechanism that is very important for the carrier transport in cases like solar cells, where the light incident on the semiconductor surface creates high carrier densities that are localized near the surface, or also the carrier transport in a pn junction diode under forward bias. Let us consider the minority carrier diffusion in a semiconductor slab that is illuminated by light from the left side as shown in Fig. 8.16. Assume that the light illuminates a p-type semiconductor. The ﬁgure illustrates that the electron density becomes smaller for larger x. We shall determine the charge that passes the cross section S at x0 per unit area and unit time, that is, the electron diffusion current density Je(diff). If we denote the mean free path of the electrons in Fig. 8.16 Minority carrier diffusion in a semiconductor 184 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors the semiconductor as l, and deﬁne t as the average time between two collisions, we obtain Je(diff) = e nL 2 Sl nR 2 Sl /St = e(nL nR)l 2t e l 2t dn dx l = e l2 2t dn dx = eDe dn dx (8.47) Here, nL and nR are the average electron densities within the regions deﬁned by the mean free path l to the left and right of x0. In this ﬁgure, the carriers ﬂow from the left side with high density to the right side with low density. When we consider that the carriers in an inﬁnitesimal small area diffuse homogeneously, we ﬁnd that half of the carriers diffuse to the left and half to the right. This applies to both the region on the left side of x0 and that on the right side and is the reason for the terms nL/2 and nR/2 in the ﬁrst line of the equation. Further, we deﬁned De = l2/2t as the diffusion constant of the electrons. We can also derive the hole diffusion current by the same approach. Jh(diff) = eDh dp dx (8.48) The Einstein relation provided below connects the diffusion constant and the mobility. De μe = kT q (8.49) Dh μh = kT q (8.50) Because the total electron current density Je as well as the total hole current density Jh is expressed as the sum of drift and diffusion current densities of the particular carrier type, we obtain the following equations: (Total electron current density) Je = Je(drift) + Je(diff) = enμeE + eDe dn dx (8.51) (Total hole current density) Jh = Jh(drift) + Jh(diff) = epμhE eDh dp dx (8.52) Consequently, the total current density J in the semiconductor is given by the sum of these equations as shown below. J =  Je(drift) + Je(diff)  +  Jh(drift) + Jh(diff)  8.8 The Currents in a Semiconductor: Drift Current and Diffusion Current 185 =  enμeE + eDe dn dx  +  epμhE eDh dp dx  (8.53) We note that in case of carrier injection, carriers may accumulate inside the semi- conductor and carrier annihilation through recombination can also occur. Therefore, the number of carriers entering the semiconductor is not necessarily equal the num- ber of carriers ﬂowing out. To analyze the temporal evolution of the carrier density distribution, we have to employ the continuity equation, which accounts for the carrier generation and recombination. By using the electron generation rate (the number of generation events per unit time) Ge, the electron recombination rate (the number of annihilation events per unit time) Re, the hole generation rate Gh, and the hole recombination rate Rh, we can write the continuity equations for the electron and hole as shown in Eqs. (8.54) and (8.55), respectively. n t = 1 e Je x + (Ge Re) (8.54) p t = 1 e Jh x + (Gh Rh) (8.55) Let us analyze the continuity equation for the case of electrons being the minority carriers. The electron density n can be divided into the density under thermal equi- librium, n0, and the excess carrier density n, and thus can be represented as shown in Eq. (8.56). n = n0 + n (8.56) By substituting Eq. (8.56) into Eq. (8.54), we obtain n t = n0 t + n t = n t (8.57) Here, we employed n0/t = 0, i.e., the fact that the density under thermal equilibrium is independent of the time. Before we compare Eq. (8.57) with Eq. (8.54), we have to specify the details of the electron generation and recombination processes. For the electron generation process, we consider the generation rate via thermal excitation, Gth,andtheopticalgenerationratevialightabsorption, Gopt.Additionally, we deﬁne τe as the minority carrier life time due to recombination. Using these deﬁnitions, we can write Ge = Gth + Gopt (8.58) Re = n τe = n0 τe + n τe (8.59) 186 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors By substituting Eqs. (8.58) and (8.59) into Eq. (8.54) and using the result of Eq. (8.57) for the left-hand side of Eq. (8.54), we obtain n t = n t = 1 e Je x +  Gth + Gopt n0 τe n τe  (8.60) In the equilibrium condition without light illumination, we have n = 0, Jn = 0, and Gopt = 0. In this case, the bracket in the above equation has to be zero and the relation Gth = n0/τe holds. By substituting this into Eq. (8.60), we obtain Eq. (8.61) as the continuity equation for the electron. n t = n t = 1 e Je x +  Gopt n τe  (8.61) Similarly, if we consider the holes as minority carriers, we can derive the following continuity equation for the holes: p t = p t = 1 e Jh x +  Gopt p τh  (8.62) Now let us actually determine the diffusion length of the minority carriers in a semiconductor by employing the equations derived above. Consider the semicon- ductor slab shown in Fig. 8.16. We assume a p-type semiconductor and calculate the diffusion of the electron (minority carrier) under the steady-state condition. As above, light illuminates the left side of the semiconductor slab and generates elec- trons. For the sake of simplicity, assume that all light is absorbed at the surface and electrons are generated at the surface only. Because the light is completely absorbed at the surface, there is no generation inside the semiconductor, i.e., Gopt(x  0) = 0. Additionally, since no electric ﬁeld is applied the drift current is zero; Je(drift) = 0. Therefore, we need to consider the diffusion current Je(diff) only. In the steady-state condition, we have n/t = 0, and thus we obtain Eq. (8.63) from Eq. (8.61). dJe(diff) dx = en τe (8.63) From Eq. (8.47), we ﬁnd the following expression for the diffusion current density Je(diff): Je(diff) = eDe dn dx = eDe dn0 dx + dn dx  = eDe dn dx (8.64) By substituting Eq. (8.64) into Eq. (8.63), we obtain Eq. (8.65). eDe d2n dx2 = en τe (8.65) 8.8 The Currents in a Semiconductor: Drift Current and Diffusion Current 187 Before we solve this second-order differential equation, we rearrange it as shown below. d2n dx2 = n Deτe (8.66) This equation describes the distribution of the excess carrier density n as a function of x. By using the boundary conditions n = n(0) at x = 0 and n = 0 for x , we obtain the following solution: n(x) = n(0) exp   x Deτe  (8.67) Here, Deτe is the so-called electron diffusion length, which is denoted as Le. Equation (8.67) describes that the excess electron density decreases exponentially as the distance from the light illuminated front surface increases (corresponding to larger values of x). The electron diffusion length Le monotonously decreases for larger impurity densities since the latter directly inﬂuences τe. For example, in a high-quality p-type Si crystal with a doping density of 1017 cm3, the diffusion length of the electron (which is the minority carrier) is about 100 μm. 8.9 The Quasi-Fermi Level In the above sections, we conﬁrmed that the Fermi level, which was introduced during the discussion of the thermal equilibrium, cannot be deﬁned anymore if excess carriers are generated by processes like photoexcitation. In such a non-equilibrium condition, we have to consider separate Fermi levels for the electrons and the holes. These are the so-called quasi-Fermi levels. There is no requirement to introduce any new concept for the deﬁnition of the quasi-Fermi level. Theenergylevel that servedas basefor boththeelectrons andholes in the semiconductor under thermal equilibrium is now simply deﬁned separately. For convenience, we repeat the deﬁnitions for the carrier densities under thermal equilibrium condition: n0 = NC exp  EC Ef kT  = ni exp  Ef Ei kT  (8.34) p0 = NV exp  Ef EV kT  = ni exp  Ei Ef kT  (8.35) If we deﬁne Efe and Efh as the quasi-Fermi levels of the electrons and the holes, respectively, the electron density n and the hole density p under non-equilibrium condition can be represented as shown in Eqs. (8.68) and (8.69). 188 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors n = NC exp  EC Efe kT  = ni exp  Efe Ei kT  (8.68) p = NV exp  Efh EV kT  = ni exp  Ei Efh kT  (8.69) The carrier densities can be expressed as the sum of the densities under thermal equilibrium and the excess carrier densities, i.e., n = n0+n and p = p0+p. The non-equilibrium electron and hole densities (n and p) presented above are exactly those introduced in Eqs. (4.11) and (4.12) in Chap. 4 with the subtle difference that the temperature T was that of the solar cell, T c. The quasi-Fermi levels can be straightforwardly derived using the above Eqs. (8.68) and (8.69). Efe = Ei + kT ln n ni (8.70) Efh = Ei kT ln p ni (8.71) From these equations, we ﬁnd that an increase in the densities of the excess carriers is accompanied by a shift of the quasi-Fermi levels. As the electron density increases, the quasi-Fermi level of the electron steadily approaches the conduction band. In contrast, the quasi-Fermi level of the hole approaches the valence band for increasing hole densities. In this way, the quasi-Fermi levels of electron and hole shift in opposite directions, and their energy difference becomes larger as the carrier densities increase. To understand the behavior of the shift of the quasi-Fermi levels, we shall analyze the changes in the quasi-Fermi levels that are induced by the generation of electrons and holes via photoexcitation. Consider once more the semiconductor slab shown in Fig. 8.16. Assume again a p-type semiconductor and that light illuminates the left edge of the semiconductor slab, generating electrons and holes. In the same manner as in the previous example, we shall assume that all light is absorbed at the surface and carriers are only generated at the surface. This situation is shown in Fig. 8.17. The minority carrier (electron) density decays exponentially for increasing depth, obeying Eq. (8.67). At the semiconductor surface where the photogeneration of carriers occurs, the excess electron density n and the excess hole density p are equal. Because the diffusion constant of the electrons, which are the minority carriers, is different from that of the majority carriers (holes), the depth dependence of p differs from that of n indicated in the ﬁgure. The photogenerated carriers cannot reach the regions deep inside the semiconductor via diffusion, and therefore, these regions exhibit a carrier distribution that corresponds to the electron and hole densities under thermal equilibrium condition, n0 and p0. In this case, the quasi- Fermi levels of electrons and holes can be deﬁned by the same value. Because the excess electron and excess hole densities are larger closer to the front surface, the quasi-Fermi levels exhibit a shift and separate as described by Eqs. (8.70) and (8.71). Because the presently considered material is a p-type semiconductor, we have p0 n0. Therefore, the contribution of the excess carriers to the total carrier density 8.9 The Quasi-Fermi Level 189 Fig. 8.17 Shifts of the quasi-Fermi levels of electrons and holes inside a p-type semiconductor under illumination with light is smaller for the holes. Accordingly, the shift in the hole quasi-Fermi level is also smaller than that for the electrons. To understand the physical meaning of the Fermi energy, it is worth to consider the free energy of electrons and holes in a semiconductor from the viewpoint of the thermodynamics and statistical physics. We deal with the entropy of electrons in a crystal. The entropy of a single electron is given by Eq. (8.72). S = 1 n  k ln w (8.72) Here, w is the number of states for the electron and is given by the FermiDirac statistics which is represented by the electron density n and the effective density of states for the electrons NC, when n NC, in Eq. (8.73). w = NC! (NC n)!n! (8.73) Using Stirlings formula given by ln n! = n ln n n, Eq. (8.73) can be expressed as shown below. ln w = NC ln NC NC (NC n) ln(NC n) + (NC n) n ln n + n = NC ln  NC NC n  + n ln  NC n n  n ln  NC n  , because of NC n NC (8.74) 190 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors By substituting Eq. (8.74) into Eq. (8.72), we obtain Eq. (8.75). S = k ln  NC n  (8.75) According to thermodynamics, the Helmholtz free energy of the electron Fe in a semiconductor is derived as Fe = EC kT ln  NC n  (8.76) Here, EC is the internal energy of the electron. On the other hand, since the electron density n is given by Eq. (8.68), the Fermi energy of the electron is expressed by the following equation. Efe = EC kT ln  NC n  (8.77) By comparing Eqs. (8.76) and (8.77), it is elucidated that Fe = Efe. That is to say that the Fermi energy corresponds to the free energy. In the same way, the free energy of hole is given by Fh = EV kT ln  NV n  (8.78) Thus, Fh = Efh. Under the thermal equilibrium condition, Fe = Fh because the sign of the free energy and the internal energy for the hole with positive charge are opposite to those for the electron with negative charge. Thereby, Efe = Efh in the electron energy. Conversely, non-equilibrium condition causes a splitting of the quasi-Fermi levels of electrons and holes. The split energy is the chemical potential which is deﬁned as the rate of change of a free energy of a thermodynamic system. 8.10 The pn Junction We ﬁnally ﬁnished the preparations for the discussion of the pn junction. The pn junction is the most basic structure that provides functionality for the implementation of semiconductors in devices. It is no exaggeration to say that this structure supports the whole semiconductor electronics industry. In the present section, we explain in detail what happens when a p-type semiconductor is connected to an n-type semi- conductor. The Fermi levels of the p-type and the n-type semiconductor under thermal equi- librium condition differ as described in Eqs. (8.36) and (8.37), respectively. We have already explained that the Fermi level at a ﬁnite temperature corresponds to the 8.10 The pn Junction 191 Fig. 8.18 Semiconductor pn junction under thermal equilibrium condition energy with an occupation probability of 1/2. From this, it can be concluded that even when the p-type and n-type semiconductors are connected, the Fermi level that extends over the whole junction has to adopt the same energy (this conclusion holds for the steady-state thermal equilibrium condition without current). This situation is depicted in Fig. 8.18, which contains information that is extremely important for the following discussion. Because the initially different Fermi levels of the p-type and n-type semiconduc- tors have to align at the same energy upon connection, the band in the vicinity of the connecting interface (i.e., the junction interface) has to shift. The potential step that is formed upon connection is called diffusion potential, which is denoted by Vb in the ﬁgure. This potential step is formed because the carrier diffusion that occurs in the vicinity of the junction interface results in a difference of the electrical potential. The energy is the electrical potential multiplied by the elementary charge e. The fact that a potential difference has formed at the junction interface is equivalent to the existence of an electric ﬁeld vector that is directed from the n-type semiconductor toward the p-type semiconductor. We note that we draw band diagrams in such a way that the upward direction corresponds to the direction of increasing energy. This has its root in Fig. 8.2, where we tried to draw the potential with respect to the elec- 192 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors tron. Consequently, when we explain the hole using the same ﬁgure, the direction of increasing energy is reversed; that is, a larger energy of the hole corresponds to a lower electron energy. This is the reason why the holes are always distributed around the upper edge of the valence band, which is the state with the lowest possible energy. The regions excluding the vicinity of the junction interface (where the potential gradient is nonzero) are called neutral regions because the spatially distributed number of ionized impurities equals the number of thermally activated free carriers; that is, these regions are electrically neutral. On the other hand, in the region near the junction interface there are no free carriers as a result of recombination. Therefore, the remaining impurity ions constitute a spatially distributed charge (a so-called space charge). These positive and negative charges to the left and right of the interface are balanced. The charge neutrality condition that is satisﬁed by the region with nonzero potential gradient can be written as eNDwN eNAwP = 0 (8.79) byusing ND fortheimpuritydensityinthen-typesemiconductor, NA,fortheimpurity density in the p-type semiconductor, and wN and wP. for the corresponding partial widths of that region in the n- and p-type semiconductors, respectively. As a result, the width of the region with nonzero potential gradient decreases for higher impurity densities. Figure 8.18 shows a diagram for a higher impurity density in the p-type semiconductor.InChap.7,wementionedthattheextensionofthisso-calleddepletion layer is extremely important for the solar cell characteristics, because it is directly related to the collection efﬁciency of the photogenerated carriers. The fact that under the thermal equilibrium condition, the carriers can stay in the steady-state condition (shown in Fig. 8.18) without any effective transport, means that the electrons in the n-type semiconductor and the holes in the p-type semicon- ductor cannot overcome the potential barrier of the depletion layer and thus cannot move to the other side. To explain this, we have to consider that the total current is the sum of the drift current and the diffusion current. In the situation shown in Fig. 8.18, the diffusion current, which induced by the carrier density gradient, perfectly can- cels the drift current induced by the internal electric ﬁeld at the junction interface. Consequently, a current starts to ﬂow if the potential barrier of the depletion layer is lowered by an external force. This can be realized by applying a negative voltage to the electrode of the n-type semiconductor and a positive voltage to the electrode of the p-type semiconductor, which is the forward bias condition. Vice versa, applying a positive voltage to the n-type semiconductor and a negative voltage to the p-type semiconductor is called reverse bias. In the latter case, the potential barrier increases further and the carrier transport stops completely due to the large impeding potential barrier. If light is incident and excess carriers are generated, these diffuse toward the pn junction interface, cross it, and are transported to the opposite region. Besides generating current, the charge transport also changes the electrical potential. Hence, electric power is generated. This is the operating principle of the solar cell. 8.10 The pn Junction 193 With the above, we sketched the physics of the pn junction roughly. Below we shall further specify the concrete behavior of the junction. First, we determine the actual value of the potential barrier in the depletion layer, Vb. We deﬁne EP as the energy difference between the Fermi level in the p-type semiconductor, Ef, and the energy of the valence band maximum, EV. Further, we deﬁne EN as the energy difference between the Fermi level Ef in the n-type semiconductor and the energy EC of the lower edge of the conduction band. Using the above deﬁnitions, we can evaluate eVb by subtracting the sum of EP and EN from the band-gap energy Eg; that is, eVb is given by Eq. (8.80). eVb = Eg (EN + EP) (8.80) By using Eqs. (8.23) and (8.24) for the electron and hole densities under thermal equilibrium condition, we obtain the following relations for the temperature regime where the impurities are completely ionized: EN = EC Ef = kT ln NC nN0 = kT ln NC ND (8.81) EP = Ef EV = kT ln NV pP0 = kT ln NV NA (8.82) The subscript 0 was introduced earlier to indicate a carrier density under the thermal equilibrium condition. Here, we added the subscripts N and P in addition to the 0, in order to distinguish the carrier densities in the n- and p-layers. In other words, nN0 denotes the electron density in the n-type semiconductor under thermal equilibrium condition, and nP0 (used below) denotes the electron density in the p- type semiconductor under thermal equilibrium condition. By substituting the above Eqs. (8.81) and (8.82) into Eq. (8.80), eVb can be represented as eVb = Eg (EN + EP) = Eg kT  ln NC ND + ln NV NA  = Eg kT ln NCNV NDNA (8.83) From this equation, we understand that the energy barrier of the diffusion potential approaches the band-gap energy if the values of ND and NA get close to NC and NV, respectively. To proceed, we employ n2 i = NCNV exp  Eg kT  (8.84) and obtain 194 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors Eg = kT ln NCNV n2 i (8.85) By substituting this result into Eq. (8.83), we arrive at the following equation: eVb = kT ln NDNA n2 i (8.86) Next, we derive concrete expressions for the potential gradient at the junction interface, the change in the electric ﬁeld, and the depletion layer width. The potential gradient of the pn junction in Fig. 8.18 was drawn with a curvature that actually has an important meaning. This curve can be obtained by solving the Poisson equation, which relates the electrical potential V (x) with the charge density QV. The Poisson equation reads d2V (x) dx2 = QV ε (8.87) Here, ε is the dielectric constant of the material, which is the dielectric constant of vacuum, ε0, multiplied by the relative permittivity εr; ε = εrε0. By using the boundary conditions V (xN) = 0 and V (xP) = Vb, the solutions of Eq. (8.87) for the electric potential V (x) in the n- and p-type semiconductor regions become as shown in the following: V (x) V (xN) = eND 2εrε0 (x xN)2 xN x x j (8.88) V (xP) V (x) = eNA 2ε (xP x)2 x j x xP (8.89) In such a way, the potential gradient in the region near the junction interface can be expressed with a quadratic function. In Fig. 8.19, we clarify the difference in the behavior of the potential gradient in the p- and n-type sides by using separate colors. Because the potential energy of the electron is eV (x), the gradient of the band in the most upper diagram of Fig. 8.19 is reversed with respect to the electric potential V (x). If we employ the condition NDwN = NAwP for charge neutrality together with Eqs. (8.88) and (8.89), we ﬁnd that the change of the electrical potential in the n-type semiconductor, VbN, and that in the p-type semiconductor, VbP, satisfy the following relationships: Vb = VbN + VbP (8.90) VbN VbP = NA ND (8.91) Further, we can write 8.10 The pn Junction 195 Fig. 8.19 Electrical potential and electric ﬁeld in a pn junction VbN = V (xN) V (x j) = eND 2ε  x j xN 2 = eND 2ε w2 N (8.92) VbP = V (x j) V (xP) = eNA 2ε  xP x j 2 = eNA 2ε w2 P (8.93) andtherefore,thedepletionlayerwidthwN inthen-typesemiconductorandthedeple- tion layer width wP in p-type region are given by Eqs. (8.94) and (8.95), respectively. wN = x j xN =  2εVbN eND =     2εVb eND 1 + ND NA (8.94) wP = xP x j =  2εVbP eNA =     2εVb eNA 1 + NA ND (8.95) Regarding the electric ﬁeld, we can write dE(x) dx = QV ε (8.96) 196 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors using E = V, and by solving this Eq. (8.96) using the boundary conditions E(xN) = 0 and E(xP) = 0, we obtain the following for the n- and p-type semicon- ductor regions: E(x) = eND ε (x xN) xN x x j (8.97) E(x) = eNA ε (x xP) x j x xP (8.98) The electric ﬁeld changes linearly, and its inclination on the p-type side is opposite to that on the n-type side. Further, the electric ﬁeld reaches its maximum at the junction interface x = xj. This behavior is also shown in Fig. 8.19. 8.11 CurrentVoltage Characteristics of a pn Junction We have already mentioned that the current ﬂowing in a semiconductor is the sum of drift current and diffusion current. In a pn junction under thermal equilibrium condition, these currents perfectly cancel each other. If forward bias is applied, the potential barrier at the junction interface is lowered. Then, the electrons ﬂow from the n-type region into the p-type region while holes ﬂow in the reverse direction, from the p-type region into the n-type region. In this way, the diffusion constitutes the dominant carrier transport in a pn junction, and therefore, the drift current of the minority carriers is not considered. Using Eq. (8.66), we can describe the excess carrier diffusion from the n-type region into the p-type region by Eq. (8.99). d2n dx2 = n L2e (8.99) Here, Le is the diffusion length of the electron. We shall assume that the positive direction of x is along the direction of the current ﬂow. By solving the above equation using the boundary conditions n = 0 for x and n = n(xP) at x = xP, we can derive the electron density nP(x) in the p-type semiconductor region. nP(x) = nP(xP) exp  xP x Le  (8.100) Hence, the electron diffusion current is given by Eq. (8.101). Je(diff) = eDe dnP dx = eDe Le nP(xP) exp  xP x Le  (8.101) 8.11 CurrentVoltage Characteristics of a pn Junction 197 A similar equation can be derived for the diffusion current of the hole, which ﬂows from the p-type semiconductor into the n-type semiconductor. Jh(diff) = eDh dpN dx = eDh Lh pN(xN) exp  x xN Lh  (8.102) Consequently, if the nP(xP) and pN(xN) in these equations are known, the total diffusion current can be determined by the sum of the electron diffusion current in Eq. (8.101) and the hole diffusion current in Eq. (8.102). By employing Eqs. (8.34) and (8.35), the electron density nP0 in the p-type semiconductor under thermal equi- librium condition and the hole density pN0 in the n-type semiconductor under thermal equilibrium condition can be expressed as shown in the following equations: nP0 = NC exp  ECP Ef kT  = NC exp  ECN Ef kT  exp  ECP ECN kT  (8.103) pN0 = NV exp  Ef EVN kT  = NV exp  Ef EVP kT  exp  EVP EVN kT  (8.104) Also here, the subscripts N and P for EC are used to distinguish the values for the n- and p-type semiconductor regions, respectively. Additionally, if we consider the temperature regime where the impurities are completely ionized, we have NC exp  ECN Ef kT  = nN0 = ND (8.105) NV exp  Ef EVP kT  = pP0 = NA (8.106) Because we deﬁned ECP ECN = eVb and EVP EVN = eVb, Eqs. (8.103) and (8.104) can be rewritten as shown in the following: nP(xP) = nP0 = ND exp  eVb kT  (8.107) pN(xN) = pN0 = NA exp  eVb kT  (8.108) These relations for the electron density in the p-type semiconductor and the hole density in the n-type semiconductor are valid for the unbiased condition without any external voltage. To obtain the carrier densities under applied forward bias voltage Va, it is sufﬁcient to simply replace Vb in Eqs. (8.107) and (8.108) by Vb Va: nP(xP) = ND exp  e(Vb Va) kT  = nP0 exp eVa kT  198 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors (8.109) pN(xN) = NA exp  e(Vb Va) kT  = pN0 exp eVa kT  (8.110) The second equalities in the above equations use the deﬁnitions for the carrier densities under the unbiased condition provided in Eqs. (8.107) and (8.108). Using Eqs. (8.109) and (8.110), the excess electron density that is transported into the p-type semiconductor due to the applied forward bias, nP(xP), and the excess hole density that is transported into the n-type semiconductor, pN(xN), can be written as shown below. nP(xP) = nP(xP) nP0 = nP0  exp eVa kT  1  (8.111) pN(xN) = pN(xN) pN0 = pN0  exp eVa kT  1  (8.112) The carrier densities that have been determined in this way for the depletion layer edges (x = xP and x = xN) are altered as a function of x due to diffusion. This change in the density depends on the diffusion length according to the mechanism described by Eq. (8.100). nP(x) = nP(xP) exp  xP x Le  (8.113) pN(x) = pN(xN) exp  x xN Lh  (8.114) These equations describe the spatial distribution of the excess carriers including effects of diffusion. The excess electron density that diffuses inside the p-type semi- conductor is nP(xP) at x = xP, but inside the p-type semiconductor the density exponentially decays with a characteristic length scale Le (the electron diffusion length) as the distance from the junction interface further increases. Similarly, the excess hole density that diffuses inside the n-type semiconductor is pN(xN) at x = xN. Also, this carrier density exponentially decays (inside the n-type semicon- ductor) with a characteristic length scale Lh (the hole diffusion length) as the distance from the junction interface increases (see Fig. 8.20). With the above, we ﬁnally ﬁnished all preparations required for the evaluation of the diffusion current. By substituting Eq. (8.111) into Eq. (8.101), we obtain Eq. (8.115). Je(diff)(x) = eDe Le nP0  exp eVa kT  1  exp  xP x Le  (8.115) At x = xP, this becomes 8.11 CurrentVoltage Characteristics of a pn Junction 199 Fig. 8.20 Carrier diffusion and decay of the carrier density in a pn junction diode Je(diff)(xP) = eDn Ln nP0  exp eVa kT  1  (8.116) In the same way, the hole diffusion current becomes Jh(diff)(x) = eDh Lh pN0  exp eVa kT  1  exp  x xN Lh  (8.117) by substituting Eq. (8.112) into Eq. (8.102). At x = xN, this results in Eq. (8.118). Jh(diff)(xN) = q Dh Lh pN0  exp eVa kT  1  (8.118) Although the diffused current of minority carrier decays as it moves away from the depletion layer edge, the total current is independent of the position (i.e., it stays the same) because the drift current of the majority carriers compensates for this 200 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors Fig. 8.21 Currentvoltage characteristics of a pn junction diode -1 0 1 J/J0 Voltage (V) 0 decay. Since the total current in a pn junction under forward bias condition is the diffusion current entering the transition region between xN and xP (we assume zero recombination inside the depletion layer), we obtain the following from the above results: J = Je(diff)(xP) + Jh(diff)(xN) = e  DenP0 Le + DhnN0 Lh  exp eVa kT  1  = J0  exp eVa kT  1  (8.119) For the last equality in Eq. (8.119), we collected all constants that are determined by the pn junction impurity densities, the carrier diffusion constants and diffusion lengths, and also the band gap into a single constant J0. Equation (8.119) is known as the pn junction diode equation. In Fig. 8.21, we show the calculation result based on this equation. As explained in the outline of the pn junction, an applied forward bias leads to a reduction in the potential barrier of the depletion layer. Consequently, the electrons ﬂow from the n-type region into the p-type region (via diffusion), and on the other side, the holes ﬂow from the p-type region into the n-type region (via diffusion). By this mechanism, the current can quite abruptly increase like water that has been initially stored in a dam and then is released. J0 is the so-called dark saturation current, which can be rewritten as shown in Eq. (8.120). Because it is proportional to the intrinsic carrier density n2 i , it actually depends on the temperature. J0 = e  DenP0 Le + DhnN0 Lh  = en2 i  De τe 1 NA +  Dh τh 1 ND  8.11 CurrentVoltage Characteristics of a pn Junction 201 = e  De τe 1 NA +  Dh τh 1 ND  NCNVexp  Eg kT  (8.120) In the reverse bias regime, a leak current corresponding to J0 ﬂows through the pn junction. If reverse bias is applied, the potential barrier increases and the transport of the carriers across the junction interface as outlined above will be inhib- ited. Therefore, under ideal conditions, a constant value of J0 is maintained for a wide range of reverse bias voltages. However, if an excessively high reverse bias is applied, a tunnel current starts to ﬂow at the depletion layer. Furthermore, the resulting large potential drop induces the carrier multiplication phenomenon, which leads to a signiﬁcant increase of the reverse current. Besides the diffusion and tunneling currents discussed above, the generationre- combination current speciﬁed below is also present at the junction interface under forward bias condition. The transition of an electron in the valence band into the con- duction band constitutes the generation process and results in a free electron. The recombination process refers to the recombination of the electron in the conduction band with a hole in the valence band. In the generationrecombination process, the electrons in the conduction band and the holes in the valence band move simulta- neously. Therefore, the effective potential barrier for the generationrecombination process is half of that for the diffusion current. The current density that accounts for this generationrecombination current is given by Eq. (8.121). J = Jdiff + JGR = J0  exp eVa kT  1  + JGR0  exp  eVa 2kT  1  = JS  exp  eVa nkT  1  (8.121) In the last line of Eq. (8.121), we introduced a new factor n to collect the terms for thediffusioncurrentandthegenerationrecombinationcurrent.This n istheso-called diode quality factor, which indicates the quality of the diode, that is, how close the actual diode characteristics are to those of the ideal diode described by Eq. (8.119). n assumes values between 1 and 2, and a value close to 1 means that diffusion current is dominant. If it is closer to 2, the generationrecombination current is dominant. This generationrecombination current is an important mechanism that inﬂuences the current characteristics of semiconductor devices with different materials such as the multi-junction solar cell presented in Chap. 6. The characteristics of the generationrecombination current appear under low forward bias voltages, and as the bias voltage is increased the diffusion current becomes dominant, i.e., n approaches 1. However, upon the generation of intense currentsbyfurtherincreasedvoltages,thebiasvoltageisalsopartiallyappliedtoother regions beside the depletion region. Since the contribution of the series resistance 202 8 Fundamentals of Semiconductors piles up in this case, the slope of the currentvoltage characteristic decreases in accordance with Ohms law. If sunlight is incident on a pn junction, excess carriers are generated which then diffuse, and this results in the generation of current and voltage. We have already mentioned several times that this is the operating principle of the solar cell. In the concluding remarks on the pn junction, we have to point out one important detail regarding the solar cell. The FermiDirac distribution expresses the occupation prob- ability of the electron under thermal equilibrium condition. We mentioned that the Fermi level is the energy level with occupation probability 1/2. However, under the non-equilibrium condition that occurs upon the generation of excess electrons and holes by incident sunlight, we have to consider separate Fermi levels for the electrons and the holes. These quasi-Fermi levels have to align with the Fermi levels in the metallic electrodes, which are attached to the pn junction on both sides. This means that the extractable voltage is equal to the difference in the quasi-Fermi levels of electrons and holes. This difference in the quasi-Fermi levels of electron and hole is usually smaller than the band-gap energy. In the completely ideal case introduced in the course of discussing the SQ theory, we assumed that the voltage for elec- tricity generation is equal to the band gap. But in order to obtain characteristics that are more realistic, these quasi-Fermi levels were introduced in the detailed balance model.