Challenges and Advances in Computational Chemistry and Physics Series Editor: Jerzy Leszczynski 32 Juganta K. Roy Supratik Kar Jerzy Leszczynski Editors Development of Solar Cells Theory and Experiment Challenges and Advances in Computational Chemistry and Physics Volume 32 Series Editor Jerzy Leszczynski, Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Jackson State University, Jackson, MS, USA This book series provides reviews on the most recent developments in computational chemistry and physics. It covers both the method developments and their applica- tions. Each volume consists of chapters devoted to the one research area. The series highlights the most notable advances in applications of the computational methods. The volumes include nanotechnology, material sciences, molecular biology, struc- tures and bonding in molecular complexes, and atmospheric chemistry. The authors are recruited from among the most prominent researchers in their research areas. As computational chemistry and physics is one of the most rapidly advancing scientiﬁc areas such timely overviews are desired by chemists, physicists, molecular biologists and material scientists. The books are intended for graduate students and researchers. All contributions to edited volumes should undergo standard peer review to ensure high scientiﬁc quality, while monographs should be reviewed by at least two experts in the ﬁeld. Submitted manuscripts will be reviewed and decided by the series editor, Prof. Jerzy Leszczynski. More information about this series at http://www.springer.com/series/6918 Juganta K. Roy  Supratik Kar  Jerzy Leszczynski Editors Development of Solar Cells Theory and Experiment Editors Juganta K. Roy Department of Chemistry, Physics and Atmospheric Sciences, Jackson State University, Interdisciplinary Center for Nanotoxicity Jackson, MS, USA Jerzy Leszczynski Deparment of Chemistry, Physics and Atmospheric Sciences, Jackson State University, Interdisciplinary Center for Nanotoxicity Jackson, MS, USA Supratik Kar Department of Chemistry, Physics and Atmospheric Sciences, Jackson State University, Interdisciplinary Center for Nanotoxicity Jackson, MS, USA ISSN 2542-4491 ISSN 2542-4483 (electronic) Challenges and Advances in Computational Chemistry and Physics ISBN 978-3-030-69444-9 ISBN 978-3-030-69445-6 (eBook) https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-69445-6  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021 This work is subject to copyright. All rights are reserved by the Publisher, whether the whole or part of the material is concerned, speciﬁcally the rights of translation, reprinting, reuse of illustrations, recitation, broadcasting, reproduction on microﬁlms or in any other physical way, and transmission or information storage and retrieval, electronic adaptation, computer software, or by similar or dissimilar methodology now known or hereafter developed. The use of general descriptive names, registered names, trademarks, service marks, etc. in this publication does not imply, even in the absence of a speciﬁc statement, that such names are exempt from the relevant protective laws and regulations and therefore free for general use. The publisher, the authors and the editors are safe to assume that the advice and information in this book are believed to be true and accurate at the date of publication. Neither the publisher nor the authors or the editors give a warranty, expressed or implied, with respect to the material contained herein or for any errors or omissions that may have been made. The publisher remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional afﬁliations. This Springer imprint is published by the registered company Springer Nature Switzerland AG The registered company address is: Gewerbestrasse 11, 6330 Cham, Switzerland For Magdalena, Alina, Jazlyn, Rituja, Shubhika Preface To provide fossil fuel alternatives, novel approaches are necessary. Photovoltaic tech- nologies have emerged as a compelling solution for sustainable electricity gener- ation by harvesting solar energy. Different photovoltaic technologies from high- efﬁciency crystalline to rapidly growing Organic Photovoltaics (OPV) materialized since discovering the photoelectric effect by Edmond Becquerel in 1839 [1]. First- generation solar cells are based on silicon wafers. Second-generation solar cells are a combinationofamorphoussilicon(a-Si)andthinﬁlms.Thethird-generationincludes a polymer, dye-sensitized, along with perovskite solar cells. The latter also can be categorized as emerging photovoltaics [2, 3]. Dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) represent one of the diverse OPV, which has a comprehensive spectrum for molec- ular engineered sensitizers combined with nanostructured TiO2 semiconductors to improve thePphotoconversion Efﬁciency (PCE) [4]. But the commercialization of DSSCs is very challenging due to their low PCE and stability. It has been proposed that the maximum theoretical efﬁciency can be achieved by up to 32% by harvesting UV to near IR photons [5]. Currently, DSSCs reached an efﬁciency of 13.6% using organic triazatruxene dye sensitizers, and there are ample scopes for further improve- ments of DSSCs [6]. DSSCs and organic Polymer Solar Cells (PSCs) are the most promising, environmentally friendly, and cost-effective solar cells. PSCs are a member of excitonic photovoltaics due to strongly bound electron-hole pairs generated after light excitation. As this type of solar cell acts as a bilayer, it is often called a Bulk-Heterojunction cell (BHJ). One suitable example of BHJ cell is P3HT/PCBM where poly(3- hexylthiophene) (P3HT) and the fullerene derivative [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) used as donor and acceptor, respectively. The conventional PSC based on the pi-conjugated donor polymer and fullerene acceptor reached the PCE value of 10%, to date [7, 8]. Intrinsic limitations like using only a narrow part of the spectral region, modulation of energy levels, and morphology impede the further improvement of polymer/fullerene solar cells [9]. To overcome the limitations, non-fullerene acceptors like small-molecule organic polymer and polymeric acceptors were explored by the scientiﬁc community and allow to reach the PCE of 16.5% [10]. vii viii Preface Organic-inorganic-based solar cells like perovskite a metal halide device, change optoelectronic landscapes by achieving PCE values  25% [11]. Unlike conven- tional inorganic semiconductors such as Si and GaAs, the perovskite solar cell possesses pronounced dynamic disorder in their crystal structure, enabling the coupling between electronic excitations and lattice vibrations. The electron-phonon coupling has been revealed to restrain the charge-carrier mobilities and develop emission linewidth broadening in hybrid lead halide perovskites [12]. Besides the perovskite matrix, the research also evolves to make the organic Hole Transport Materials (HTMs) more effective as the efﬁciency losses via interfacial carrier recombination (non-radiative) processes [13, 14]. Those metal halide devices have led to remarkably rapid development in the renewable energy research community. However, intrinsic instability of the perovskite layers and the charge transport layer when coming into contact with moisture makes this type of solar cell vulnerable. Another class of photovoltaics is dopant-free silicon (Si)/organic Heterojunction Solar Cells (HSCs), very much promising due to the availability of raw materials and the nearly optimum bandgap of Si to harvest more sunlight [15, 16]. Different hole-transporting layers like tungsten oxide, vanadium oxide, and poly(3,4-ethylene dioxythiophene):polystyrene (PEDOT:PSS) have been used to ease the band offsets and ultimately increase an efﬁciency of HSCs. Recently, the HTCs reached the efﬁ- ciency of over 26% with the use of a combination of c-Si solar cells with an Interdig- itated Back Contact (IBC) technology and c-Si/a-Si heterojunction (HJ) technology [17]. The advancement of quantum chemical methodology and availability of efﬁ- cient computational resources enable studying the different microkinetic of the elec- tron/charge transfer mechanism at the interface or in intramolecular species [14, 18, 19, 20]. Density Functional Theory (DFT) and Time-Dependent DFT (TDDFT) are powerful tools to predict or explore the mechanism of different essential processes in the PVs. Intramolecular charge transfer to intermolecular charge transfer, radia- tive and nonradiative lifetime can be computed with acceptable accuracy. Hybrid functional like HSE06 is very efﬁcient to predict the band offset of semiconductor or hybrid matrix for perovskite solar cells [21]. Besides, Green;s function (G0W0) approachisbasedonmany-bodyperturbationtheory,BetheSalpeterEquation(BSE) methods, excited state dynamics being used to predict the different lifetime constant of the photophysical systems [20]. It is viable to obtain the new atomistic, photo- physical properties, and the photophysics of energetic materials precisely through theoretical and computational modeling. Knowledge of most of the quantum chemical properties and the chemical 1D to 3D properties of major structural components of speciﬁc solar cells may help design further power-efﬁcient solar cells than the existing ones employing strate- gies like Quantitative Structure-Property Relationships (QSPRs), machine learning (ML), and artiﬁcial intelligence. The QSPR analysis [22] can isolate relatively more efﬁcient materials to start with, followed by the computation of electrochemical and photophysical parameters through quantum chemical studies to establish the best feasible materials for future solar cells. Preface ix The book comprises nine chapters covering fundamental aspects of numerous solarcellsthatrequirefurtherresearchinupcomingdaysformajorcommercialization and making of a more durable and efﬁcient solar cell. Chapter Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell: Fabrication, Efﬁciency, and Stability by Zhang et al. discussed the latest progress and fundamentals of Perovskite Solar Cells and provided some useful insights related to Fabrication, Efﬁciency, and Stability for future study. Chapter State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon/Organic Heterojunction Solar Cells: Challenges and Future prepared by Hossain et al. analyzed the present state-of-the-art solution-processed PEDOT:PSS/n-Si hetero- junction solar cells in detail. Additionally, the authors discussed the advent, prin- ciple of operation, fabrication process, carrier transport properties, and evolution of the efﬁciency of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cells followed by the challenges of the solar cells and proposed selected design guidelines for further improvement in the efﬁciency of the solar cells. Chapter Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties of Organic Photo- voltaics from Density Functional Theory Methods by Rodríguez and Götz reviewed how DFT methods can be employed to characterize interfacial properties, UV-Vis absorption spectra, and photoinduced charge separation in BHJ-OPV donor-acceptor complexes based on semiconducting polymers as donor and fullerene derivatives as acceptor. Chapter Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: A Brief Historical Perspective and Uses in Multijunction Devices by Daniel and Delcamp reported a brief history of the development of solar-to-electric devices for the classically researched solar cell tech- nologies, including Si, CIGS, CdTe, GaAs, OPV, DSC, and PSC devices. These tech- nologies relative strengths and weaknesses are also presented along with the impor- tance of multijunction system research toward higher efﬁciency solar-to-electric systems. Chapter Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations in Hybrid Organic-Inorganic Heterojunction of Dye-Sensitized Solar Cell: Assessment of Excitonic Optical Prop- erties Using the GW and BetheSalpeter Greens Function Formalisms by Samanta and Leszczynski highlighted crucial ideas of practical implementation of Bethe- Salpeter Equation (BSE) involving the computations of single-particle states, quasi- particle energy levels, and the screened Coulomb interaction with the aid of Gaus- sian atomic basis sets and resolution-of-identity techniques. Additionally, the authors reported the most recent advancements in theoretical methods that employ the Maxi- mally Localized Wanniers Function (MLWF) and curtail BSE calculations overall scaling. The viable applications are subsequently illustrated critically with selected examples. Chapter Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures for n- and p-type SemiconductorsA Theoretical Approach by Sen illustrated promising DSSCs involving organic D-pi-A and similar structures for n- and p-type semiconductors. Chapter Application of QSPR Modeling in Designing and Prediction of Power Conversion-Efﬁcient Solar Cell prepared by Kar et al. discussed the implication x Preface of QSPR models to explore multiple chemical classes in search of the best possible efﬁcient materials for solar cells with higher %PCE values than those currently on the market. Major QSPR models developed for Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells (DSSCs) and Polymer Solar Cells (PSCs) are thoroughly interpreted. The authors also reported how QSPR models could be implemented in solar cell designing as well as the virtual screening of materials databases. Additionally, solar cell databases and preparation of webserver for future prediction of %PCE are also offered to provide an easy start for beginners. Chapter Computational Screening of Organic Dye-Sensitizers for Dye-Sensi- tized Solar Cells: DFT/TDDFT Approach by Roy et al. highlights DFT and TDDFT frameworks importance to design organic dye-sensitizers for DSSCs to predict different photophysical properties. This chapter also includes a basic introduction to the mechanism of DSSCs, based on the energetics of the various constituents of the heterogeneous device. Chapter Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes Used in Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells by Krishna et al. demonstrates the application of QSPR analysis to model absorption maxima of carbazole dyes used in DSSCs employingPartialLeastSquares(PLS)basedchemometrictool.Thestatisticalresults suggested that the model was statistically signiﬁcant. Most of the models descriptors are easily interpretable 2D atom pair descriptors that may be employed to design and develop new carbazole dyes and to predict λmaxvalues before they are synthesized. The Editors express their gratitude to all the authors for their knowledge enlight- ening contributions in the middle of pandemic COVID-19. Moreover, we thank the reviewersfortheirtime,expertise,andcommentstoimprovethemanuscriptsquality. We believe that this book will help the budding researcher in solar energy and experts in this speciﬁc ﬁeld. Jackson, MS, USA Juganta K. Roy Supratik Kar Jerzy Leszczynski References 1. Bequerel E (1839) Recherches sur les effets de la radiation chimique de la lumière solaire, au moyen des courants électriques. CR Acad Sci 9:145149. 2. Ostroverkhova O (2016) Organic Optoelectronic Materials: Mechanisms and Applications. Chemical Reviews 116:1327913412. 3. Rahn Kim M, Ma D (2014) Quantum-Dot-Based Solar Cells: Recent Advances, Strategies, and Challenges. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 6:8599. 4. ORegan B, Grätzel M (1991) A low-cost, high-efﬁciency solar cell based on dye-sensitized colloidal TiO2 ﬁlms. Nature 353:737740. 5. Snaith HJ (2010) Estimating the Maximum Attainable Efﬁciency in Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells. Advanced Functional Materials 20:1319. 6. Zhang L, Yang X, Wang W, G. Gurzadyan G, Li J, Li X, An J, Yu Z, Wang H, Cai B, Hagfeldt A, Sun L (2019) 13.6% Efﬁcient Organic Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells by Minimizing Energy Losses of the Excited State. ACS Energy Letters 4:943951. Preface xi 7. Thompson BC, Fréchet JMJ (2008) Polymer-fullerene composite solar cells. Angewandte Chemie (International ed in English) 47:5877. 8. Gutiérrez-González I, Molina-Brito B, Götz AW, Castillo-Alvarado FL, Rodríguez JI (2014) StructuralandelectronicpropertiesoftheP3HTPCBMdimer:AtheoreticalStudy.Chemical Physics Letters 612:234239. 9. Lee C, Lee S, Kim GU, Lee W, Kim BJ (2019) Recent Advances, Design Guidelines, and Prospects of All-Polymer Solar Cells. Chemical Reviews 119:80288086. 10. Cui Y, Yao H, Zhang J, Zhang T, Wang Y, Hong L, Xian K, Xu B, Zhang S, Peng J, Wei Z, Gao F, Hou J (2019) Over 16% efﬁciency organic photovoltaic cells enabled by a chlorinated acceptor with increased open-circuit voltages. Nature Communications 10:2515. 11. National Renewable Energy Laboratory (2019). https://www.nrel.gov/pv/cell-efficiency. html. Accessed on November 1, 2020. 12. Wright AD, Verdi C, Milot RL, Eperon GE, Pérez-Osorio MA, Snaith HJ, Giustino F, John- ston MB, Herz LM (2016) Electron-phonon coupling in hybrid lead halide perovskites. Nature communications 7. 13. Kim H-S, Mora-Sero I, Gonzalez-Pedro V, Fabregat-Santiago F, Juarez-Perez EJ, Park N-G, Bisquert J (2013) Mechanism of carrier accumulation in perovskite thin-absorber solar cells. Nature Communications 4:2242. 14. López-Estrada O, G. Laguna H, Barrueta-Flores C, Amador-Bedolla C (2018) Reassessment of the Four-Point Approach to the Electron-Transfer MarcusHush Theory. ACS Omega 3:21302140. 15. He J, Wan Y, Gao P, Tang J, Ye J (2018) Over 16.7% Efﬁciency Organic-Silicon Heterojunc- tion Solar Cells with Solution-Processed Dopant-Free Contacts for Both Polarities. Advanced Functional Materials 28:1802192. 16. He J, Gao P, Ling Z, Ding L, Yang Z, Ye J, Cui Y (2016) High-Efﬁciency Silicon/Organic Heterojunction Solar Cells with Improved Junction Quality and Interface Passivation. ACS Nano 10:1152511531. 17. Yoshikawa K, Kawasaki H, Yoshida W, Irie T, Konishi K, Nakano K, Uto T, Adachi D, Kane- matsu M, Uzu H, Yamamoto K (2017) Silicon heterojunction solar cell with interdigitated back contacts for a photoconversion efﬁciency over 26%. Nature Energy 2:17032. 18. Shee J, Head-Gordon M (2020) Predicting Excitation Energies of Twisted Intramolecular Charge-Transfer States with the Time-Dependent Density Functional Theory: Comparison with Experimental Measurements in the Gas Phase and Solvents Ranging from Hexanes to Acetonitrile. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 16:62446255. 19. Azpiroz JM, Infante I, Angelis FD (2015) First-Principles Modeling of Core/Shell Quantum Dot Sensitized Solar Cells. J. Phys. Chem. C.119:1273912748. 20. Snir N, Toroker MC (2020) The Operando Optical Spectrum of Hematite during Water Splitting through a GWBSE Calculation. J. Chem. Theory Comput. 16:48574864. 21. Heyd J, Scuseria GE, Ernzerhof M (2003) Hybrid functionals based on a screened Coulomb potential. J. Chem. Phys. 118:8207 22. Roy K, Kar S, Das RN (2015) Understanding the basics of QSAR for applications in pharmaceutical sciences and risk assessment. Academic Press, Amsterdam Contents Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell: Fabrication, Efﬁciency, and Stability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Lin Zhang, Yao Zhao, and Qilin Dai State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon/Organic Heterojunction Solar Cells: Challenges and Future . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Jaker Hossain, A. T. M. Saiful Islam, Koji Kasahara, Ryo Ishikawa, Keiji Ueno, and Hajime Shirai Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties of Organic Photovoltaics from Density Functional Theory Methods . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 Juan I. Rodríguez and Andreas W. Götz Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: A Brief Historical Perspective and Uses in Multijunction Devices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81 Andrew Daniel and Jared H. Delcamp Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations in Hybrid Organic Inorganic Hetero Junction of Dye-Sensitized Solar Cell: Assessment of Excitonic Optical Properties Using the GW and BetheSalpeter Greens Function Formalisms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 99 Pabitra Narayan Samanta and Jerzy Leszczynski Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures for n- and p-type SemiconductorsA Theoretical Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127 Anik Sen Application of QSPR Modeling in Designing and Prediction of Power Conversion-Efﬁcient Solar Cell . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 167 Supratik Kar, Juganta K. Roy, and Jerzy Leszczynski Computational Screening of Organic Dye-Sensitizers for Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: DFT/TDDFT Approach . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 187 Juganta K. Roy, Supratik Kar, and Jerzy Leszczynski xiii xiv Contents Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes Used in Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207 Jillella Gopala Krishna, Probir Kumar Ojha, and Kunal Roy Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233 Contributors Qilin Dai Department of Chemistry, Physics, and Atmospheric Sciences, Jackson State University, Jackson, MS, USA Andrew Daniel Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Missis- sippi, University, MS, USA Jared H. Delcamp Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Mississippi, University, MS, USA Jillella Gopala Krishna Department of Pharmacoinformatics, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Educational and Research (NIPER), Chunilal Bhawan, Kolkata, India Andreas W. Götz San Diego Supercomputer Center, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, CA, USA Jaker Hossain Solar Energy Laboratory, Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University of Rajshahi, Rajshahi, Bangladesh Ryo Ishikawa Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Saitama University, Saitama, Japan Supratik Kar Interdisciplinary Center for Nanotoxicity, Department of Chemistry, Physics and Atmospheric Sciences, Jackson State University, Jackson, MS, USA Koji Kasahara Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Saitama University, Saitama, Japan Jerzy Leszczynski InterdisciplinaryCenterforNanotoxicity,DepartmentofChem- istry, Physics and Atmospheric Sciences, Jackson State University, Jackson, MS, USA Probir Kumar Ojha Drug Theoretics and Cheminformatics Laboratory, Depart- ment of Pharmaceutical Technology, Jadavpur University, Kolkata, India Juan I. Rodríguez Escuela Superior de Física y Matemáticas, Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Ciudad de México, Mexico xv xvi Contributors Juganta K. Roy Interdisciplinary Center for Nanotoxicity, Department of Chem- istry, Physics and Atmospheric Sciences, Jackson State University, Jackson, MS, USA Kunal Roy Drug Theoretics and Cheminformatics Laboratory, Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Jadavpur University, Kolkata, India A. T. M. Saiful Islam Department of Electronics and Telecommunication Engi- neering, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Science & Technology University, Gopalganj, Bangladesh Pabitra Narayan Samanta Interdisciplinary Center for Nanotoxicity, Department of Chemistry, Physics and Atmospheric Sciences, Jackson State University, Jackson, MS, USA Anik Sen Department of Chemistry, GITAM Institute of Science, GITAM (Deemed To Be University), Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh, India Hajime Shirai Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Saitama University, Saitama, Japan Keiji Ueno Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Saitama University, Saitama, Japan Lin Zhang Department of Chemistry, Physics, and Atmospheric Sciences, Jackson State University, Jackson, MS, USA; Department of Mechanical Engineering, Villanova University, Villanova, PA, USA Yao Zhao Department of Mechanical Engineering, Temple University, Philadel- phia, PA, USA Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell: Fabrication, Efﬁciency, and Stability Lin Zhang, Yao Zhao, and Qilin Dai Abstract The perovskite solar cells (PSC) are believed to have great potential in solar cell industries, since the dramatic power conversion efﬁciency (PCE) improve- ment in such short time (i.e., from 3.8% in 2009 to 25% up to date). Organolead halide perovskite materials are commonly used in the PSC, such as CH3NH3PbI3. In order to improve the PCE, many methods have been taken, such as doping ions in perovskite materials, charge transporting layer modiﬁcation, microstructure modiﬁ- cation, and utilizing advanced fabrication techniques. Besides PCE, stability is also an important issue in PSC, because the perovskite can be easily decomposed with moisture, UV light, and overheating, which is a big challenge for the commercial- ization of PSCs. This chapter summarizes the latest progress of PSCs and provides some useful insights for future study. 1 Introduction Fossil fuels have been playing an important role in the science and technology devel- opment for centuries. They brought so many beneﬁts and convenience to human beings in industries and our daily life. However, they may fade away in the future with the rising of the alternative and renewable energy, because the traditional fossil fuels can lead to some environmental problems, such as air pollution and greenhouse effect. One of the most promising substitutes is the solar energy, which is believed to be the cleanest energy source. Solar cell is a kind of device which can directly convert the light energy into electric energy with photovoltaic effect. The photovoltaic effect L. Zhang  Q. Dai (B) Department of Chemistry, Physics, and Atmospheric Sciences, Jackson State University, Jackson, MS 39217, USA e-mail: qilin.dai@jsums.edu L. Zhang Department of Mechanical Engineering, Villanova University, Villanova, PA 19085, USA Y. Zhao Department of Mechanical Engineering, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA 19122, USA  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021 J. K. Roy et al. (eds.), Development of Solar Cells, Challenges and Advances in Computational Chemistry and Physics 32, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-69445-6_1 1 2 L. Zhang et al. was ﬁrstly discovered by French physicist Edmond Becquerel in 1839, and the ﬁrst solar cell was made by American inventor Charles Fritts around 1886 with about 1% efﬁciency [1]. During the last several decades, with the development of materials science and fabrication technologies, quite a few kinds of solar cells have been made, such as amorphous silicon solar cell, crystalline silicon solar cell, dye-sensitized solar cell, thin-ﬁlm solar cell, perovskite solar cell, and so on. Perovskite Solar Cell (PSC) has exhibited great potential since the unveiling of the perovskite solar cell in year of 2009 [2], because of the extraordinary growth in power conversion efﬁciency (PCE) ( 20% up to date). 1.1 The Structure and Properties of PSC Figure 1 illustrates the perovskite crystal structure, which was named after Russian mineralogist L. A. Perovski. The structure is also known as ABX3 structure, where A and B are two kinds of cations while X is an anion. The size of A is normally larger than B. As shown in Fig. 1, generally a cubo-octahedral site is occupied by the large A cation and 12 X anions, while an octahedral site is occupied by the small B cation and 6 anions [3]. Take CH3NH3PbI3 (aka MAPI3, a commonly used material in PSC) as an example, the cation CH3NH3+ occupies the position A, the cation Pb2+ occupies the position B, while the anion Iis on position X. Recently, compared to the conventional perovskite oxides, organometallic lead halide perovskites have attracted much more attention due to their superb performance such as low fabrication cost and high power conversion efﬁciency (PCE) [4]. Besides Pb- basedhalideperovskitematerials(CH3NH3PbX3,X=Cl,Br,orI),someotherkindsof perovskite materials have also been investigated, such as Sn-based halide perovskite materials (CH3NH3SnX3) and mixed halides (CH3NH3SnBrxI3-x, x=0-3) [4, 5]. Fig. 1 Perovskite crystal structure (ABX3) Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  3 It is well known that two important factors can be used to predict the structure and stability of perovskite materials: one is the octahedral factor μ and another is the tolerance factor t. They are deﬁned as follows: [6] t = (RA + Rx)/  2(RB + Rx) (1) μ = RB/Rx (2) Here, RA is the ionic radius of A cation, RB is the ionic radius of B cation, and Rx is the ionic radius of anion X. Generally, as for halide perovskite materials, the t is in the range between 0.81 and 1.11 and μ is in the range 0.440.90, while a lower (t  0.8) or higher value (t  1) will result in the structure distortion or the formation of alterative structures [7]. Figure 2a shows calculated values of t and µ for commonly used hybrid perovskite components [8]. As shown in Fig. 2b, Sun et al. also developed a new factor (μ + t)η (η is the atomic packing fraction) to accurately describe the relative stability among any two perovskites for photovoltaic applications [9]. The PSC architectures signiﬁcantly affect their overall performance of devices and can be broadly divided into six types, namely, the mesoscopic n-i-p conﬁguration, the planar n-i-p conﬁguration, the mesoscopic p-i-n conﬁguration, the planar p-i- n conﬁguration, the electron transporting layer (ETL)-free conﬁguration, and the (hole transporting layer) HTL-free conﬁguration. Four typical PSC architectures are shown in Fig. 3 [10]. Furthermore, as shown in Fig. 4, many efforts have been made to develop advanced structures of PSC for applications in photolysis, power source, and photodetectors [11], such as ﬂexible cells [12], carbon-electrode-based cells [13], semitransparent cells [14], tandem cells [15], integrated cells [16], switchable cells [17], and single crystal cells [18]. The as-prepared PSC devices are supposed to possess high power efﬁciency, high stability, and large-scale applicability. However, Fig. 2 a Calculated octahedral factors for various combinations of commonly used organic and inorganic hybrid perovskite materials [8]. Reused with permission from Ref. [8]. Copyright 2015, Elsevier Ltd. b Map of (t, µ) for 138 perovskite compounds [9]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [9]. Copyright 2017, American Chemical Society 4 L. Zhang et al. Fig. 3 Schematic illustration for four typical types of PSC architectures [10]. Reproduced with permission from Ref. [10]. Copyright 2016, Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers Fig. 4 a Photograph of a ﬂexible PSC [12]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [12]. Copyright 2018, Korean Ceramic Society. b Device architecture and photographic image of colorful PCS [23]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [23]. Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society. c Schematic conﬁguration and operating mechanism of an integrated PSC [16]. Printed with permission from Ref. [16]. Copyright 2018, The Royal Society of Chemistry. d Photographic images of obtained single crystals [24]. Printed with permission from Ref. [24]. Copyright 2015, The Royal Society of Chemistry there are still several issues in practical operations of PSC, such as the long-term instability due to the perovskite degradation [19, 20], the toxicity of most commonly used compounds [21], and the current-voltage hysteresis in devices [22]. Therefore, several techniques have been developed to fabricate large-scale PSC for enhancing stability, improving PCE, and relieving toxicity issue. Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  5 1.2 Preparation Techniques for PSC The performance of PSC is signiﬁcantly affected by the morphology, the crys- tallinity structure, and the optoelectronic property of perovskite ﬁlms. The quality of perovskite ﬁlms greatly depends on their construction methods including intrinsic properties of initial materials, the depositing substrate, the conditions for ﬁlm growth, and the subsequent thermal annealing [8]. Depending on the structure, interface, and morphology of perovskite materials, there are two general methods to fabri- cate perovskite ﬁlms by either wet chemistry processing method or vapor-assisted processing method as shown in Fig. 5 [25]. 1.2.1 Wet Chemistry Processing Methods One-Step Coating Deposition The one-step coating (one method of solution processes) has been considered as the most preferable method to generate PSC due to its simplicity and low cost. Generally, for the one-step method, a solution is ﬁrstly prepared by mixing organic and inor- ganic halides (e.g., CH3NH3I and PbI2). Then the mixed solution is spinning coated on a substrate followed by drying and thermal annealing [26]. Figure 6a shows a solution-saving one-step dip-coating method developed by Huang et al. Compared to the conventional one-step spinning coating method, this facile and waste-free one-step dip-coating method enables the PSC not only to possess a similar PCE around 12%, but also to show negligible hysteresis [27]. Based on Zhangs method, the spin-coating precursor solution (e.g., HI +PbI2) can be directly deposited by CH3NH2 in its atmosphere to generate high-performance perovskite. The compo- sition of precursors can be well controlled by this one-step gaseous reaction (see Fig. 6b) [28]. Fig. 5 PSC manufacturing techniques based on the literature [25] 6 L. Zhang et al. Fig. 6 a One-step dip-coating method for perovskite formation [27]. Reused with permission from Ref. [27]. Copyright 2017, Elsevier Ltd. b A non-CH3NH3X (X = I, Br) one-step deposition of CH3NH3PbX3 for PSC [28]. Printed with permission from Ref. [28]. Copyright 2016, The Royal Society of Chemistry Two-Step Deposition The two-step sequential coating method for PSC fabrication is originally developed by Mitzi et al. [29]. Compared to one-step coating processing, the PSC fabricated by the two-step deposition method shows a higher performance because the morphology and interface of perovskite ﬁlms can be better controlled via this sequential two-step coating. In a typical two-step spin-coating process, the PbI2 solution was ﬁrst spin coated on a substrate to form PbI2 ﬁlm and then the CH3NH3I solution was spin coated on the top of the dried PbI2 ﬁlm [26]. As shown in Fig. 7a, Li et al. reported a new method to control the morphology of PbI2 by antisolvent treatment in two- step deposition method. The as-prepared PSC shows a high PCE improvement from 12% to 16.1%, a less hysteresis, and a high air stability [30]. A modiﬁed two-step method for CH3NH3PbI3 PSC was adopted by Bi et al. Unlike the general procedure, there was a dichloromethane (DCM) treatment for the as-prepared CH3NH3PbI2 ﬁlm before drying step and this improved method showed a DCM-induced quality enhancement [31]. Figure 7b shows a two-step deposition method-mediator extrac- tion treatment (MET) to generate large-scale perovskite. In this MET method, a pre- deposited PbI2-DMSO ﬁlm went through twice bathing with 2-propanol (IPA) and CH3NH3I solution, respectively. This proposed MET method including successive Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  7 Fig. 7 a A modiﬁed two-step deposition method including antisolvent treatment [30]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [30]. Copyright 2017, American Chemical Society. b A fast two-step deposition of perovskite by mediator extraction treatment [32]. Printed with permission from Ref. [32]. Copyright 2018, The Royal Society of Chemistry slot-die coating and bathing provides an important insight into fabricating large-scale and high-quality perovskite ﬁlms within a short processing time [32]. 1.2.2 Vapor-Assisted Processing Methods Vapor-Assisted Solution Process Compared to conventional solution methods, the vapor-assisted solution (VASP) approachtakesadvantageofeasysublimationoforganicspeciesandefﬁcientreaction of organic-inorganic components, and further controls the growth of perovskite ﬁlms, such as the grain structure, the morphology, and the crystal size [33]. Typically, there are two key steps in the VASP method: one is the inorganic ﬁlm deposition and another is the reaction between inorganic ﬁlm and organic species in the vapor phase. Figure 8a shows a low-pressure vapor-assisted solution approach (LP-VASP). In this study, the PbI2 ﬁlms were ﬁrstly generated by spin-coating tech- nique. Then the PbI2 ﬁlms around amine salts were sealed in a petri dish and heated in a vacuum oven. The performance of as-prepared CH3NH3PbX3-yIy (X=Cl, Br) 8 L. Zhang et al. Fig. 8 a Schematic illustration of perovskite ﬁlm preparation based on low-pressure vapor-assisted solution process (LP-VASP) [34]. Reused with permission from Ref. [34]. Copyright 2017, Elsevier, Ltd. b Perovskite ﬁlm preparation based on low-temperature vapor-assisted solution process (LW- VASP) [35]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [35]. Copyright 2014, American Chemical Society. c Perovskite ﬁlm preparation based on a modiﬁed VASP [36]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [36]. Copyright 2015, American Chemical Society ﬁlms could be adjusted via tuning the reaction parameters. The PSC based on the optimum perovskite ﬁlm exhibited a high PCE at 17.3% and a good stability over 3600 h [34]. Chen et al. developed a low-temperature vapor-assisted solution method to fabricate planar heterojunction PSC [35]. As shown in Fig. 8b, compared to the co-deposition of PbI2 and CH3NH3I in the conventional vacuum deposition method, this novel simple approach enabled the in situ reaction of pre-deposited inorganic ﬁlm and organic vapor based on the kinetic and thermodynamic properties of the synthetic reaction. The as-synthesized perovskite ﬁlm with this method possessed full surface coverage with small roughness and uniform grain structure. The PCE is up to 12.1% and this method provides important insight into generating perovskite ﬁlms and devices in high reproducibility [35]. Liu et al. also developed a modiﬁed VASP to construct uniform and high-quality perovskite thin ﬁlm as shown in Fig. 8c [36]. The amine salt was evaporated bottom-up and reacted with the pre-prepared PbI2 ﬁlms facing down to vapor. The as-fabricated PSC shows a PCE at 10.2% and a slight hysteresis effect. This method paves the way to explore the stability of PSC. Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  9 Fig. 9 a Organometal halide-based perovskites synthesis [39]. Printed with permission from Ref. [39]. Copyright 2014, The Royal Society of Chemistry. b Formamidinium iodide (FAI)-based perovskite synthesis by Leyden et al. [40]. Printed with permission from Ref. [40]. Copyright 2015, The Royal Society of Chemistry. c Synthesis PSC with low defect density and high efﬁciency by Ng et al. [41]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [41]. Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society. d Synthesis PSC with a simple in situ tubular VCD (ITVCD) method by Luo et al. [42]. Printed with permission from Ref. [42]. Copyright 2015, The Royal Society of Chemistry Chemical Vapor Deposition Compared to other vapor-assisted processing methods, chemical vapor deposition (CVD) technique with high production yield and scalability has been considered as one of the most desirable techniques to produce high-quality perovskite ﬁlms in a large scale [2, 37, 38]. Leyden et al. reported a hybrid chemical vapor deposition (HCVD) to synthesize perovskite[39].AsshowninFig.9a,theaminesaltwasplacedinthehightemperature zone and the pre-deposited PbI2 substrates were in the low-temperature zone. The MAI would land on, diffuse to, and react with the PbI2 ﬁlm. This method can tune the reaction parameters (e.g., gas ﬂow rate, temperature, and pressures) enabling the PSC with a PCE as high as 11.8% and an ability to be scaled up to the industry level [39]. The method was also ﬁrstly applied to fabricate formamidinium iodide (FAI)- based perovskite as shown in Fig. 9b [40]. The obtained FAI-based PSC could have a 14.2% PCE and keep stability for 155 days. Ng et al. also synthesized CH3NH3PbI3 perovskite based on HCVD method as shown in Fig. 9c [41]. In this process, the 10 L. Zhang et al. Fig. 10 a Single-source physical vapor deposition (SSPVD) for perovskite ﬁlm preparation [43]. Reused with permission from Ref. [43]. Copyright 2016, Springer Nature. b Schematic illustration of perovskite ﬁlm fabrication by microwave irradiation annealing [46]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [46]. Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society sublimated MAI was transported to the pre-deposited PbI2 substrate by the gas of N2/O2, and the growth parameters including the temperature, the carrying gas ratio (N2/O2), and the postdeposition cooling rate were systematically investigated. It is found that under the optimal conditions, a PCE of as-fabricated PSC as high as 17.6% can be obtained. Luo et al. presented an in situ tubular CVD (ITCVD) technique to fabricate uniform perovskite ﬁlms in large scale and low cost [42]. Figure 9d shows the schematic diagram for the PSC preparation, in which the pre-deposited PbI2 substrate faced down to the amine salt and reacted to the CH3NH3I gas once heated. Based on this ITCVD method, the PSC with planar structure is possessing a high PCE efﬁciency of 12.2%, a high crystallinity, and excellent optical properties can also be achieved [42]. Thermal Vapor Deposition Generally, the thermal vapor deposition covers single-source and dual-source evap- oration systems. A single-source physical vapor deposition (SSPVD) was proposed by Fan et al. [43]. As shown in Fig. 10a, the MAPbI3 powder was ﬁrstly placed into a crucible and then the powder sublimated efﬁciently when the temperature was raised to a certain point. Finally, the gas phase of MAPbI3 was deposited on the substrate and the PSC showed a PCE around 10.90% [43]. Liu et al. reported the dual-source thermal vapor deposition (TVD) for perovskite synthesis [44]. The inorganic and organic species were deposited on the pre-deposited substrate layer. In this study, the as-prepared PSC exhibited a PCE as high as 15.4%. Additionally, Hwang et al. produced a CH3NH3PbI3-based memory cells by a sequential vapor deposition [45]. Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  11 This method provides a potential to explore the organic-inorganic perovskites for application in data storage. Microwave Irradiation Method The microwave irradiation deposition (MIP) was ﬁrstly employed to produce perovskite ﬁlms by Cao et al. [46]. Figure 10b shows a simple schematic for prepara- tionofperovskiteﬁlmsassistedbyMIP.Theas-preparedperovskiteﬁlmswereloaded on a Teﬂon shelf and subsequently placed into the microwave oven for microwave annealing. Compared to the conventional thermal annealing, this method contributed to producing perovskite ﬁlms with higher crystallinity and lower defect density [46]. 2 The Efﬁciency Improvement of PSC The power conversion efﬁciency (PCE) of organic-inorganic lead halide perovskite solar cell is one of the key factors of the solar cell [47]. Since the debut of the PSC in 2009, the PCE has been improving rapidly [48, 49]: the PCE of the ﬁrst PSC reported by Kojima et al. was only 3.8% [50]. In 2011, Im et al. [51] achieved 6.5% in PCE; in 2012, Kim et al. [52] reported a PCE exceeding 9%. To our best knowledge, over 22% PCE has been conﬁrmed in 2016 [53]. All of the exciting results and ﬁndings in such short time show the great potential of PSC. Many methods and techniques have been utilized to enhance the PCE, which can be divided into three main aspects: materials selection and optimization, better device fabrication methods and techniques, and microstructure designing and engineering. 2.1 Materials and Microstructure The material selection includes perovskite materials, charge transferring mate- rials, and electrode materials. In terms of the perovskite materials, many crys- tals and compounds which have similar structure with CH3NH3PbX3 (X=I, Br, Cl) have been researched. It is believed that larger grain sizes, lower defects and pinholes, and stronger bonding can lead to higher PCE [19, 25, 54]. Instead of using pure CH3NH3PbI3, Jin et al. [55] partially substituted the PbI2 with ZnCl2 to obtain CH3NH3I(PbI2)1-x(ZnCl2)x thin ﬁlm. The CH3NH3I, PbI2, and ZnCl2 powders were mixed together with different molar ratios. The ZnCl2-doped thin ﬁlm exhibited larger but uniform grains than the undoped CH3NH3PbI3. Consequently, the CH3NH3I(PbI2)1-x(ZnCl2)x thin-ﬁlm solar cell shows 18.2% in efﬁciency with 3 mol% ZnCl2 doped as shown in Fig. 11a [55]. Boopathi et al. studied the effect of the addition of alkali salts (e.g., KCl, NaCl, and LiCl) into the perovskite precursor on the PSC performance [56]. It is found that the addition of a small amount of KCl 12 L. Zhang et al. Fig. 11 a Efﬁciency enhancement of PSC based on adding zinc chloride [55]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [55]. Copyright 2017, American Chemical Society. b Efﬁciency enhancement of PSC based on incorporating salt additives [56]. Printed with permission from Ref. [56]. Copyright 2016, The Royal Society of Chemistry can improve the crystallinity and morphology of the perovskite ﬁlm and the PCE of the as-prepared device can be increased to 15.08% due to the enhancement of absorp- tion and excitation ability as shown in Fig. 11b. Moreover, the device based on KCl addition exhibited a high long-term stability, showing a small degradation 16% in dark after 50 days [56]. In order to obtain large grain size of perovskite crystals, Seo et al. adopted the methylammonium formate ionic liquid (IL) to hinder the perovskite growth [57]. It is concluded that the addition of speciﬁc IL into precursor will result in the formation of large crystalline domain that is beneﬁcial for collecting charges and improving performance of PSC. The as-obtained planar PSE based on IL-driven mechanism can reach 19.5% [57]. Li et al. developed a three-dimensional (3D) metal-organic assembly [In2(phen)3Cl6]CH3CN2H2O (In2) and ﬁrstly introduced it into the perovskite precursor PbI2 [58]. The perovskite thin ﬁlm was obtained based on a two-step sequential deposition method. It is discovered that introduc- tion of In2 can improve the crystallization and modify the morphology of both the Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  13 precursor PbI2 and the perovskite ﬁlm. Consequently, the performance of the device was largely enhanced with an efﬁciency as high as 17.15% due to the high quality of the as-synthesized perovskite ﬁlm [58]. Aeineh et al. employed the inorganic NPs (Au@SiO2) to modify the interface between compact TiO2 and mesoporous TiO2 substrate as shown in Fig. 12a [59]. The SiO2 shell of the inorganic NPs can avoid the reaction between Au and CH3NH3PbI3 perovskite ﬁlm. The surface modiﬁcation of PSC enabled the increasing of PCE to 17.55% due to the photocurrent and photovoltage enhancement [59]. Cao et al. also modiﬁed the interface between TiO2 and perovskite ﬁlm by introducing thiol leads as shown in Fig. 12b [60]. The TiO2 ﬁlm was ﬁrstly treated with HOOC-R-SH and then was deposited by perovskite layer. The perovskite ﬁlm was also modiﬁed by thiols to become hydrophobic. On the one hand, this surface modiﬁcation can enhance the electron transport between TiO2 layer and perovskite payer. On the other hand, the morphology of the perovskite crystals can be optimized. As a result, the performance of the PSC was signiﬁcantly enhanced with a high efﬁciency of 14.1% [60]. Jung et al. reported that the PCE of the ﬂexible PSC can be enhanced by optimizing the thickness of the ZnO electron transport layer, the precursor PbI2 phase, and the crystal growth of the perovskite layer [61]. Figure 12c shows the schematic illustration of fabrication process, and the thickness of the ZnO layer was Fig. 12 a Efﬁciency enhancement of PSC based on interface modiﬁcation by Au/SiO2 NPs [59]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [59]. Copyright 2017, American Chemical Society. b Efﬁciency enhancement of PSC based on interface modiﬁcation by thiols [60]. Printed with permission from Ref. [60]. Copyright 2015, The Royal Society of Chemistry. c Efﬁciency enhancement of PSC based on interface modiﬁcation by controlling ZnO layer thickness, PbI2 phase, and perovskite morphology [61]. Reused with permission from Ref. [61]. Copyright 2016, Elsevier Ltd. d Efﬁ- ciency enhancement of PSC based on interface modiﬁcation by constructing brookite-based TiO2 heterophase junction [62]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [62]. Copyright 2019, American Chemical Society 14 L. Zhang et al. adjusted by varying the cycles of spin coating. The morphology/size of the perovskite was optimized by controlling the precursor MAI volume with a ﬁxed concentration. In this case, the PbI2 phase can be tuned to block the recombination. Furthermore, both the grain size and thickness of the crystals increased after spin coating. As a result, the ﬂexible PSC based on this modiﬁed two-step coating method shows a best PCE around 12.34% due to the enhanced absorbance and reduced recombination [61]. Recently, Shahiduzzaman et al. tried to modify the TiO2 electron transport to enhance the PSC efﬁciency [62]. Experimentally, they hydrothermally synthesized the brookite TiO2 nanoparticles (NPs) with high purity for the ﬁrst time. Then the brookite-based TiO2 heterophase NPs were deposited on the ﬂuorine-doped tin oxide (FTO)-patterned substrate. It is found that the resultant PSC based on this technique showed an efﬁciency up to 16.82% due to well controlling of the electron transfer and the electron-hole density (Fig. 12d) [62]. Zhao et al. developed a facile method to modify the perovskite ﬁlm by depositing a cesium acetate ﬁlm [63]. The introduced cesium acetate can react with the perovskite and retard the migration of MA+, so that the organic transport layer can be well protected by avoiding the ionic penetration. Figure 13a shows the cross-sectional SEM image of the Spiro-OMeTAD-modiﬁed perovskite ﬁlm and it can be seen the optimized PSC exhibits a 20.9% PCE [63]. In the study of Hu et al., a self- assembled poly (3,4-ethylenedioxythiphene):poly(styrenesulfonate) (PEDOT:PSS) monolayer was generated on the surface of PEDOT:PSS ﬁlm (Fig. 13b) [64]. In this case, an oriented electric ﬁeld was constructed due to the structural arrangement of the PEDOT:PSS layer. This structural alignment contributes to accelerating the hole Fig. 13 a Efﬁciency enhancement of PSC based on interface modiﬁcation by cesium acetate [63]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [63]. Copyright 2018, American Chemical Society. b Efﬁciency enhancement of PSC based on fabricating the PEDOT:PSS monolayer [64]. Printed with permission from Ref. [64]. Copyright 2018, The Royal Society of Chemistry Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  15 Fig. 14 Efﬁciency enhancement of PSC based on CsPbBr3 NPs additive [67]. Reused with permission from Ref. [67] Copyright 2019, Elsevier Ltd extraction and hence enhance the PCE to 18% [64]. Moreover, Seo et al. used meso- porous TiO2 beads modiﬁed with CsBr as the electron-speciﬁc contact [65]. In this strategy, the light absorption is enhanced and the interfacial interaction is strength- ened. Consequently, the efﬁciency of PSC prepared based on the Rb/Cs/FA0.95MA0.05 perovskite can reach as high as 21% [65]. Chen et al. [66] found that adding 1.5% Bi3+ in (FA0.83MA0.17Pb(I0.83Br0.17)3) (FA: formamidinium) can effectively increase the perovskite thin-ﬁlm grain size into roughly 1.4 µm without pinhole formation. The well-controlled microstructure with less grain boundaries and enhanced crystallization led to a PCE of 19.4%. Simulta- neously, the long-term thermal stability was also improved. Similarly, Gao et al. [67] reported that the perovskite thin ﬁlm exhibited better crystallinity and larger grains by adding 2% CsPbBr3 nanoparticles in MAPI3 ﬁlm, which resulted in high efﬁciency of 20.46% (Fig. 14). Tong el al. [68] added guanidinium thiocyanate (CuaSCN) into (FASnI3)0.6(MAPbI3)0.4 thin ﬁlm and found that the 7% doped perovskite not only had enhanced grain sizes, and less pinholes and pinholes, but also had larger carrier lifetime (1 µs) with 2.5 µm in diffusion lengths. Moreover, the morphology changed with GuaSCN addition. With this method, they achieved 25% efﬁciency for four-terminal and 23.1% for two-terminal thin-ﬁlm tandem PSC, which is the highest reported efﬁciency up to date to our best knowledge. 2.2 Advanced Fabrication Methods and Techniques Advanced solar cell fabrication methods and techniques can help to enhance the efﬁ- ciency by improving the materials properties, and lessen the defects and undesired microstructures. For instance, Gao el al. [69] utilized pulsed laser deposition (PLD) 16 L. Zhang et al. method to prepare densiﬁed electron transportation layers (ETL). The amorphous- Zn2SnO4 ETL thin ﬁlm illustrated better contact with FTO substrate, while the ETL prepared by conventional spin-coating method possessed a lot of pinholes and defects. The better contact between ETL and FTO decreased the leakage current and enhanced the interfacial charge collection. Consequently, the PCE was improved to 20.04%. Zhou et al. discovered that the defect of the CH3NH3PbI3 perovskite thin ﬁlm prepared by the conventional one-step method can be reduced by intro- ducing methylamine (CH3NH2) gas [70]. After heat treatment, the MAPbI3 ﬁlm will go through CH3NH2 treatment for 23 s in their gas phase. It is observed that the CH3NH2 gas had a healing effect on the original perovskite ﬁlm due to the formation of CH3NH3PbI3xCH3NH2 phase resulting from the interaction between perovskite and gas. After the healing treatment by CH3NH2 gas, a high-quality, large-scale, and defect-free perovskite ﬁlm was formed, enabling the efﬁciency of the PSC up to 15.1% [70]. Lee et al. reported a strategy to fabricate PSC with a large area by an air-knife-assisted D-bar coater [71]. Figure 15 shows the schematic illustration for the coating process. As shown in Fig. 15, the precursor solution (e.g., MAI + PbI2) was loaded on the D-bar and the substrate is moved at a certain speed. Then the argon gas was supplied by an air knife to help evaporate the solvent. Finally, the as-prepared substrate was thermal annealed. It is found that, introducing lead acetate (PbAc2) into the precursor solution (MAI + PbI2) in the solvent of 2-methoxyethanol (2ME) will produce the methylammonium acetate (MAAc) as a by-product during the coating process. The presence of MAAc is beneﬁcial for the formation of perovskite ﬁlm with high quality. Furthermore, when a small amount of guanidinium iodide (GAI) was added into the PbAc2-containing precursor solution, the hysteresis was reduced and the efﬁciency was further enhanced. The highest PCE of the as-prepared device can reach 19.44% [71]. In 2016, Li et al. fabricated a large-area PSC using a vacuum ﬂash-assisted solution process (VASP) [72]. Typically, the surface of the TiO2 ﬁlm Fig. 15 Efﬁciency enhancement of PSC based on an air-knife-assisted D-bar coater [71]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [71]. Copyright 2019, American Chemical Society Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  17 was ﬁrstly spin coated by the precursor FA0.81MA0.15PbI2.51Br0.45 solution including dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO). Then the as-prepared ﬁlm is put into a vacuum chamber for crystallization. It is found that the vacuum ﬂash plays a signiﬁcant role in forming perovskite ﬁlm. This VASP method enabled the formation of perovskite ﬁlm with high electronic quality in a large area, showing the maximum PCE of 20.5% [72]. Chou et al. used an ultrasonic spray-coating strategy to produce the perovskite ﬁlm [73]. Figure 16 shows the schematic illustration for the ultrasonic spray-coating tech- nique. Experimentally, the pre-treated indium-doped tin oxide (ITO)/PEDOT:PSS substrate was spray coated with the precursor solution, in which a commercial ultra- sonic nozzle was used. Then the substrate coated with precursor solution was ther- mally treated for the solvent evaporation. The CH3NH3PbI2 ﬁlm with high crys- tallinity and large area was successfully fabricated based on this facile one-step spray-coating method. The ultrasonic spray-coated PSC exhibited a less hysteresis and a high PCE of 12.3% [73]. Park et al. also reported the megasonic spray-coating method to fabricate large-area PSC [74]. The CH3NH3PbI3 solution was deposited on the pre-treated ITO/PEDOT:PSS substrate based on a meagasonic nebulizer spray system and the highest PCE could reach 16.9% [74]. In 2017, an aerosol-jet (AJ)- assisted method is introduced for CH3NH3PbI3 perovskite growth by Bag et al. [75]. In general, the perovskite ﬁlm was generated by a two-step sequential deposition method. Firstly, the ITO/PEDOT:PSS substrate was deposited by the PbI2 ﬁlm. In this step, the microstructures of the PbI2 phase could be well controlled. Then the PbI2 ﬁlm was coated by the CH3NH3I aerosol mist that is generated by the AJ printer. Through this technique, the printed perovskite ﬁlm can be tuned from the compo- sition, the morphology, and the electronic properties. Furthermore, the PCE of the as-prepared PSC based on the modiﬁed precursor ink containing NaI can be up to Fig. 16 Efﬁciency enhancement of PSC based on one-step ultrasonic spray-coating method [73]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [73]. Copyright 2018, American Chemical Society 18 L. Zhang et al. 15.4% [75]. Tang et al. produced the perovskite ﬁlm using the doctor-blade coating method [76]. In their study, a small amount of cesium (Cs+) and bromine ions (Br) were added into the precursor solution and the highest PCE of the as-prepared device based on the doctor-bladed MA0.6FA0.38Cs0.02PbI2.975Br0.025 ﬁlms can reach 19.3% [76]. The PSC was also fabricated using the slot-die coating method [77]. In the slot- die coating process, the gas quenching contributes to the formation of the PbI2 ﬁlm without pinholes. Furthermore, the charge transporting layers (e.g., ZnO and P3HT) were also produced based on this method. Based on the slot-die-coated perovskite ﬁlm, the best PCE of the as-obtained device was 11.96% [77]. 3 PSC Stability Besides efﬁciency, the stability is also a vital matter for PSC. Unfortunately, several factors can lead to the degradation of the solar cell, such as moisture, UV light, thermal effects, and so on. The limited durability of PSC can potentially hinder the commercialization of PSC. Therefore, longer life span and more stable performance are always pursued by researchers. 3.1 Moisture Stability The mechanism of PSC moisture degradation was proposed by Frost et al. [78] by speculating the XRD phase change before and after moisture exposure. The perovskite may hydrolyze with the following reactions: [79] CH3NH3PbI3(s) PbI2(s) + CH3NH3I(aq) (3) CH3NH3I(aq) CH3NH2(aq) + HI(aq) (4) 4HI(aq) + O2 2I2(s) + 2H2O(l) (5) 2HI(aq) H2(g) + I2(s) (6) It is believed that water is served as the catalyst for the degradation process [80]. It was also reported that CH3NH3PbI3 was more vulnerable than CH3NH3PbBr3 [79]. Some researchers tried to improve the moisture resistance of the perovskite crystals by adding extra ions. Smith et al. [81] found that although the PCE of the (PEA)2(MA)2[Pb3I10] (PEA:C6H5(CH2)2NH3+; MA:CH3NH3+) was as low as 4.73%, nonetheless, it exhibited better stability under moisture. The crystal stability was studied by XRD proﬁles. Speciﬁcally, both the (PEA)2(MA)2[Pb3I10] Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  19 and (MA)[PbI3] were conditioned in 52% relative humidity for 46 days, during which the XRD patterns were collected periodically. With water exposure, the (MA)[PbI3] showed PbI2 peaks gradually and became the major phase after 40 days, while the (PEA)2(MA)2[Pb3I10] barely showed any differences. Furthermore, Xu el al. [82] embedded the CH3NH3PbBr3 nanoparticles into hyperbranched polyami- doamine (PAMAM) dendrimers and found that the moisture stability time was 800 h and the halide exchange was also delayed. Cai et al. [83] reported that the addition of Pb(SCN)2 additive may be able to modify the morphology of the FA0.8Cs0.2PbI2.68Br0.32 and enhance the moisture stability of the PSC. The Pb(SCN)2 with different concentrations were directly added into the perovskite solution. It was concluded that with 2% Pb(SCN)2 addition, the PCE was much improved from 13.9 to 17.0, and 85.1% of the PCE remained after the PSCs were kept in 60% relative humidity for 45 days (Fig. 17a). Cai et al. [83] speculated that this improvement could be due to stronger interaction between Pb2+ and SCN. Apart from adding ions, an alternative method is surface modiﬁcation which improves the hydrophobicity of the perovskite crystals. To improve the moisture resistance of PSC, Chen et al. [84] utilized zinc phthalocyanine (ZnPc) hydrophobic hole modiﬁcation layer in the planar hetero-junction structure. The ZnPc layer was deposited on the MAPI3 layer by rotary vacuum thermal evaporation at 320 C. On top of the hydrophobic layer, a layer of spiro-OMeTAD was spun coated. Exposed to 30% relative humidity at 25 C, the PCS with ZnPc layer still possessed 85% efﬁciency on average after 100 days, while the efﬁciency of the PSC without the hydrophobic layer decayed to almost 0 after 800 h exposure (Fig. 17b). Hangoma [85] et al. created a hydrophobic layer with the surface treatment of the electron transport layer [6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM). Ethylenediamine was spin coated on the PCBM thin ﬁlm, followed by hydrophobic stearic acid dipped on it. The ethylenediamine could help to form better bonding between the stearic acid and PCBM and lead to higher hydrophobicity of the ﬁlm. To test the water and moistureresistivity, thesamplewithandwithout surfacetreatment was immersedinto water for a certain amount of time. Comparing to the treated sample, the non-treated sample displayed lighter color (a) and clearer PbI2 peaks in the XRD proﬁles (b) after 50 s water immersion, which illustrated the better stability of the PSC with surface treatment. Im el al. [86] utilized a kind of Ti-doped MoO 2 as the hole transporting material. In order to synthesize Ti-doped MoO2, MoO3 powders were ﬁrstly prepared by ultrasonic spray pyrolysis method. Then the MoO3 particles were dispersed in a DI water and ethylene glycol mixture, followed by the addition of triethanolamine and titanium diisopropoxide bis (acetylacetonate) which was dissolved in methanol. At last, the Ti-doped MoO2 nanoparticles can be harvested after 210 C heating for 12 h. The moisture stability was studied by the XRD patterns after the materials were immersed in water for several days. The Ti-doped MoO2 barely had any phase changes after 15 days while the pristine MoO2 decomposed very soon. Serving as the hole transporting layer, which is on the top of perovskite layer, the Ti-doped MoO2 was found to be more stable than pristine MoO2 under moisture, and was able to provide protection for the perovskite crystals herein. The possible reason for 20 L. Zhang et al. Fig. 17 a Moisture stability enhancement based on lead thiocyanate additive [83]. Reused with permission from Ref. [83]. Copyright 2017, Elsevier B.V. b Moisture stability enhancement based on introducing a hydrophobic hole modiﬁcation layer [84]. Reused with permission from Ref. [84]. Copyright 2016 Elsevier Ltd. c Moisture stability enhancement based on Ti-doped MoO2 nanoparticle-hole-transporting material [86]. Reused with permission from Ref. [86]. Copyright 2017, Elsevier B.V. Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  21 the robust performance under moisture can be the doped MoO2 which has stronger Mo-O bonding than the undoped MoO2 (Fig. 17c). 3.2 UV Light Stability Researchers found that the UV light can also degrade the perovskite crystals. A degradation mechanism for the CH3NH3PbI3 PSCs with TiO2 as the photoanode was proposed by Ito et al. [87] with the following reactions: 2II2 + 2e[at the interface between TiO2 and CH3NH3PbI3] (7) 3CH3NH3+ 3CH3NH2(g) + 3H+ (8) I+ I2 + 3H+ + 2e3HI(g) (9) They believed that the TiO2 can extract electrons from the Iof CH3NH3PbI3 at the interfacial areas. The dissipations of gaseous products can also lead to further CH3NH3PbI3 irreversible degradations. By exposing the perovskite materials in UV light and subsequently analyzing the XRD proﬁles of them, Ouaﬁet al. [88] found that CH3NH3PbBr3 had better UV stability than CH3NH3PbI3. The reason could be that the CH3NH3PbBr3 is denser than CH3NH3PbI3, and Br can form stronger bonding with Pb and hydrogen bond with the ammonium cation. They also found that with 20% Br doping, the PSC can have effective UV stability improvement. The most intuitive way to improve the UV stability probably is by adding UV ﬁlter material to block UV light. Sun et al. [89] added an extra UV absorber layer on the top of the FTO glass to ﬁlter the UV light with 275400 nm in wavelength. Although the current density of the PSC was a little comprised (2.2% decreased), the UV resistance was much improved: the modiﬁed PSC decreased 13.67% in PCE after exposed to UV for 25 h while the control device almost lost all the PCE. As shown in Fig. 18a, the control device (a) decomposed into PbI2 which corresponded to the yellowish color of the solar cell, while the perovskite ﬁlm of the modiﬁed solar cell (b) still stayed intact. Inspired by Mother Nature, Cao et al. [90] introduced sinapoyl malate (SM) to mimic the sunscreen effect which can provide protection to plants from UV light. After TiO2 surface modiﬁcation with SM (one efﬁcient sunscreening agent), on one hand, the PSC UV stability was improved; on the other hand, it also beneﬁted the PCE because the SM enhanced the interfacial bonding between TiO2 and perovskite materials. Another idea to elongate the lifetime from UV degradation is to convert the UV into other wavelength light. Jin el al. [91] added carbon dots (CD) in the mesoporous TiO2 layers by dip-coating method, considering the CDs outstanding UV absorption, wavelength-dependent emissions, and stable photochemical property (Fig. 18b). The CDs were prepared by mixing and dissolving citric acid and ethylenendiamine in DI 22 L. Zhang et al. Fig. 18 a UV light stability enhancement based on interface modiﬁcation and a UV absorption layer [89]. Printed with permission from Ref. [89]. Copyright 2017, The Royal Society of Chemistry. b UV light stability enhancement based on introduction of ﬂuorescent carbon dots [91]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [91]. Copyright 2017, American Chemical Society. c UV light stability enhancement based on incorporating YVO4:Eu3+, Bi3+ nanophosphor into the mesoporous TiO2 layer [92]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [92]. Copyright 2018, American Chemical Society water, and then heated to 200 C for 5 h in a Teﬂon-lined autoclave. The luminance test results showed that the addition of the CDs could convert the UV light into blue light. The PSCwith CDs can remain more than 70% of the initial PCEafter 12 h of UV exposure, while the control sample only had 20% remaining. Additionally, the PCE of the PSC with CDs was also improved from 14.6% to 16.4%. With similar mechanism, Jin et al. [92] introduced luminescent semiconductors YVO4:Eu3+, Bi3+ into the mesoporous TiO2 layer. The YVO4:Eu3+, Bi3+ was able to convert the UV light into red light, which was also called luminescent downshifting (LDS). Speciﬁcally, the high-energyUVlightwasdownshiftedintolow-energyvisiblelight.TheYVO4:Eu3+, Bi3+ in this work was prepared by hydrothermal method; ﬁrstly, Y(NO3)36H2O, Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  23 Eu(NO3)36H2O, and Bi(NO3)3 5H2O were added in nitric acid solution; secondly, NH4VO3 water solution was added in the previous solution; and then the solution was mixed and stirred, and heated at 180 C for 24 h. The luminescent semiconductor was mixed into the TiO2 paste, which was diluted with ethanol and directly spin coated on compact TiO2 layer. After 60 h UV light irradiation, the doped PSC had about 70% of initial PCE retained, while the control sample only had 20% remaining (Fig. 18c). In terms of fabrication method, Chen et al. [93] utilized pulsed laser deposition method to obtain the downshifting semiconductor SrAl2O4:Eu2+, Dy3+ (SAED) layer. The SAED is a kind of long-lasting and non-radioactive downshifting phosphor material which can convert the UV light into green light region. The SAED target which was prepared by powder cold pressing and annealing was irritated by laser with 6 Hz frequency. More interestingly, this PSC possesses a solar energy storage effect. Because the SAED had long-lasting luminescence, even if the light illumination was turned off, the PSC was able to generate power for some time. This method may provide a new insight on how to store solar energy in solar cells. Separating the CH3NH3PbI3 layer and TiO2 layer from directly contacting may be another alternative method to improve the PSC UV light stability. Chen et al. [94] introduced an extra CsPbBr3 layer in between the CH3NH3PbI3 and Cp-TiO2 layers. After 100 h UV irradiation, the modiﬁed PSC remained 82% of the initial PCE, which is much larger than 55% of the control device. According to their speculation, the advantages of the extra CsPbBr3 layer can be threefold: 1. The CsPbBr3 layer can improve the charge transfer between the CH3NH3PbI3 and Cp-TiO2 layers. 2. The CsPbBr3 can downshift the UV light into visible light. 3. The CsPbBr3 can also serve as a UV ﬁlter. 3.3 Thermal Stability Dualeh et al. [95] proposed a possible mechanism for the perovskite materials thermal degradation, with the following equation: CH3NH3PbI3 PbI2 + CH3NH2(g) + HI(g) (10) And the temperature, and presence of water and air can also inﬂuence the reaction rate [80]. The CH3NH3PbI3 was found to be stable until 300 C at which the PbI2 starts to form [95]. Nonetheless, Philippe et al. [96] discovered that the CH3NH3PbI3 started to decompose from 100 C when the thermal stability test was performed in ultrahigh vacuum. Chen et al. [66] systematically researched the inﬂuence of the Bi3+ doping. They found that the Bi3+ may be able to help enhance the grain sizes and lower the pinholes and defects. Additionally, the Bi3+ doped PSC exhibited higher thermal stability. The Bi3+ doped solar cell remained 81% of the initial PCE and the control device decreased to almost zero after kept at 80 C for 22 days. They specu- lated the possible reason was that the Bi3+ could shorten the lattice spacing and 24 L. Zhang et al. hence stronger the bonding. Shao el al. [97] found that adding dimethyl ammonium (DMA+) may be helpful to increase the symmetry of CH3NH3PbI3. Single crystals of MA1-xDMAxPbI3 (x:0-0.25) were prepared by dissolving PbI2, MAI, and DMAI into butyrolactone (GBL) solution. By analyzing the XRD peaks of the samples, they discovered that with the doping amount of DMA+ increasing, the symmetry of the perovskite increased. Namely, the crystal structure tended to convert from tetragonal into cubic structure. They believed that the more symmetric structure can beneﬁt the thermal stability of the PSC. After kept at 85 C for 168 h, the PCE of the modiﬁed solar cell gradually decreased from 18.0% to 13.4% while the control device only had 35% of the initial PCE retained. Zou et al. [98] found that the thermal stability can be improved by adding guanidine thiocyanate (GITC) (Fig. 19a). The perovskite thin ﬁlm was prepared with typical two-step method through adding GITC into lead precursor solution. To study the thermal stability of the solar cell, the devices were annealed at 120 C in air, and the corresponding XRD patterns were measured and compared. For the pristine device, the CH3NH3PbI3 decomposed into PbI2 signiﬁ- cantly after 35 min, while the doped device only had minor phase change. To further understand the role of the doped ions, Pb(SCN)2 were added into the perovskite layer and the same test was performed. With only SCNdoped, the thermal stability was Fig. 19 a Thermal stability enhancement based on an efﬁcient guanidinium isothiocyanate additive [98]. Reused with permission from Ref. [98]. Copyright 2018, Elsevier Ltd. b Thermal stability enhancement based on poly(9-vinylcarbazole)-modiﬁed perovskite/PCBM interface [99]. Reused with permission from Ref. [99]. Copyright 2019, Elsevier Ltd Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  25 quite comparable with the control device, which indicated that the guanidinium ions resulted in the stability improvement. Zhang el al. [99] tried to engineer the interfa- cialareabetweenperovskiteandPCBMlayers.Poly(9-vinylcarbazole)(PVK),which was considered to be able to improve the bonding and crystallization of the perovskite layer, was utilized to form a quasi-continuous sheet for this purpose. It was reported that both the humidity and thermal stabilities of the solar cell were improved with the PVK modiﬁcation (Fig. 19b). The explanation could be that the PVK layer can decrease the perovskite grain boundary exposed and make the Perovskite surface much smoother. Park et al. [100] tried to improve the thermal stability by intro- ducing phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) in the perovskite layer, which was found to be located at the grain boundary areas. They also found that with the concentration of the PCBM increasing, the thermal stability of the PSC increased accordingly. Furthermore, Park et al. also researched the inﬂuence of perovskite grain sizes on the thermal stability. Several different grain size (10150 µm) perovskite ﬁlms were fabricated through hot-casting method, and the grain sizes were controlled by the substrate temperature. The results indicated that the larger grain size, the more stable the PSC was. They supposed that the chemical binding of the grain boundaries was smaller than the inside of the crystals. With the grain size growing larger, the grain boundary area decreased, which improved the stability. In terms of sealed solar cells, Baranwal el al. [101] reported that the sealing technique can also inﬂuence the thermal performance. A kind of UV-curing glue was utilized to seal the porous carbon counterelectrode PSCs. Two different sealing designs were studied in this work, which were over sealing and side sealing. Surpris- ingly, on one hand, the over sealing device showed even worse thermal stability when tested at 100 C. On the other hand, the side sealing device had very robust behavior, with no apparent change in PCE even after 1500 h testing. The reason for this phenomenon is still waiting to be found. However, this ﬁnding can provide an important reference to the solar cell industry for the commercialization of the PSC. 4 Other Issues With the advent of the PSCs recently, issues other than efﬁciency and stability should also be focused, such as toxicity. Pb is a major element in PSCs as well as a toxic element. After intake, the Pb compounds can be transported to the entire body through blood transportation, which might be harmful to many organs, such as liver, kidney, and nerve system [21]. For better environmental sustainability and toxicity removal, Singh et al. [102] substituted Pb with Mn to fabricate MAPbxMn1-xI1+2xCl2-2x (x:0.1- 1.0) PSCs. The PSC can provide 1.19 V in Voc and 87.9% in ﬁll factor as shown in Fig. 20a. Johansson et al. [103] utilized a lead-free and low-toxic CsBi3I10 as the perovskite material. They found that the CsBi3I10 can absorb broader spectrum, and it could be an important alternative material in solar energy harvesting with low toxicity (Fig. 20b). 26 L. Zhang et al. Fig. 20 a A lead-free manganese-based PSC [102]. Printed with permission from Ref. [102]. Copyright 2016, The Royal Society of Chemistry. b A lead-free and low-toxic CsBi3I10-based PSC [103]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [103]. Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society. c Efﬁcient colorful PSC based on a transparent conductive polymer as the top electrode [23]. Adapted with permission from Ref. [23]. Copyright 2016, American Chemical Society Besides, aesthetics of the PSCs was also an interesting topic, which may meet the requirement of architecture design. Jiang et al. [23] found that the perovskite was commonly in dark-brown color due to the large absorption coefﬁ- cient. To get colorful PSCs, they utilized a transparent conductive polymer poly(3,4- ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(styrenesulfonate) (PEDOT:PSS) as the top electrode, which was a selective antireﬂection coating simultaneously. The PEDOT:PSS layers were deposited by spin-coating or transfer-printing technique (denoted as PEDOT:PSST). The colorful PSCs can be obtained by compromising part of the PCE, as shown in Fig. 20c. Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  27 5 Conclusions and Perspectives Since the debut of the perovskite solar cell (PSC) in 2009, a lot of researches have been done with respect to different aspects. The PSCs are believed to have great potential in solar cell industries, since the dramatic power conversion efﬁciency (PCE) improvement in such short time (i.e., from 3.8% in 2009 to 25% up to date). Organolead halide perovskite materials are commonly used in the PSC, such as CH3NH3PhI3. In order to improve the PCE, many methods have been taken. In terms of the materials, some ions and molecules were doped in the perovskite layer, charge transporting layers, and/or even the electrode layers. Some of the doped ions and molecules can help to improve the intrinsic PCE, and some of them can help modify the microstructure. It is also believed that increasing the crystal sizes, decreasing the defects and pinholes, and strengthening the chemical bonding can lead to PCE improvement. Moreover, advanced processing and fabricating methods such as interface modiﬁcation, spray-coating, doctor-blading coating, slot-die coating, and aerogel-jet-assisted printing can also improve the PCE of the PSC. Besides PCE, stability is also an important issue in PSC, because the perovskite can be easily decomposed with moisture, UV light, and overheating, which is a big challenge for the commercialization of PSCs. Many ions were introduced into the perovskite to improve the intrinsic stability. Many engineering methods have been taken to improve a particular stability. For example, to improve the moisture stability, hydrophobic layers were added to protect the perovskite layers from wetting by the working environment. In order to improve the UV stability, not only a UV blocking layer can be added, which can ﬁlter the UV light, but also some downshifting materials can be doped, which is a kind of luminescence semiconductor and able to convert the UV light into visible region. Last but not least, some issue, such as toxicity and aesthetics, are also considered. The researches in this topic will make the PSCs more comprehensive and complete in terms of the functionality. All in all, more studies should be conducted, respect to all the aspects. Hopefully, PSCs with high efﬁciency and stability, low cost and toxicity PSCs can be commercialized within a short time. References 1. Oxlade C (2012) Solar power. Capstone Global Library Ltd, Lodon, England 2. Ono LK, Leyden MR, Wang S, Qi Y (2016) Organometal halide perovskite thin ﬁlms and solar cells by vapor deposition. J Mater Chem A 4:66936713 3. Park NG (2015) Perovskite solar cells: an emerging photovoltaic technology. Mater Today 18:6572 4. Jung HS, Park NG (2015) Perovskite solar cells: from materials to devices. Small 11:1025 5. Weber D (1978) CH3NH3PbX3, ein Pb(II)-system mit kubischer perowskitstruktur. Z Naturforsch B 33:14431445 6. Goldschmidt VM (1926) Die gesetze der krystallochemie. Naturwissenschaften 14:477485 7. Green MA, Ho-Baillie A, Snaith HJ (2014) The emergence of perovskite solar cells. Nat Photonics 8:506514 28 L. Zhang et al. 8. Chen Q, Marco ND, Yang Y, Song TB, Chen CC, Zhao H et al (2015) Under the spotlight: the organicinorganic hybrid halide perovskite for optoelectronic applications. Nano Today 10:355396 9. Sun Q, Yin WJ (2017) Thermodynamic stability trend of cubic perovskites. J Am Chem Soc 139:1490514908 10. Song Z, Watthage SC, Philips AB, Heben MJ (2016) Pathways toward high-performance perovskite solar cells: review of recent advances in organo-metal halide perovskites for photovoltaic applications. J Photon Energy 6:123 11. Zuo C, Bolink HJ, Han H, Huang J, Cahen D, Ding L (2016) Advances in perovskite solar cells. Adv Sci 3:116 12. Ren X, Jung HS (2018) Recent progress in ﬂexible perovskite solar cell development. J Korean Ceram Soc 55:325336 13. Zhou C, Lin S (2020) Carbon-electrode based perovskite solar cells: effect of bulk engineering and interface engineering on the power conversion properties. Sol RRL 4:119 14. Shi B, Duan L, Zhao Y, Luo J, Zhang X (2020) Semitransparent perovskite solar cells: from materials and devices to applications. Adv Mater 32:112 15. Eperon GE, Leijtens T, Bush KA, Prasanna R, Green T, Wang JTW et al (2016) Perovskite- perovskite tandem photovoltaics with optimized bandgaps. Science 354:861865 16. Liang J, Zhu G, Lu Z, Zhao P, Wang C, Ma Y et al (2018) Integrated perovskite solar capacitors with high energy conversion efﬁciency and fast photo-charging rate. J Mater Chem A 6:2047 2052 17. Wheeler LM, Moore DT, Ihly R, Stanton NJ, Miller EM, Tenent RC et al (2017) Switchable photovoltaic windows enabled by reversible photothermal complex dissociation from methylammonium lead iodide. Nat Commun 8:19 18. Dang Y, Ju D, Wang L, Tao X (2016) Recent progress in the synthesis of hybrid halide perovskite single crystals. CrystEngComm 18:44764484 19. Berhe TA, Su WN, Chen CH, Pan CJ, Cheng JH, Chen HM et al (2016) Organometal halide perovskite solar cells: degradation and stability. Energy Environ Sci 9:323356 20. Snaith HJ (2018) Present status and future prospects of perovskite photovoltaics. Nat Mater 17:372376 21. Babayigit A, Ethirajan A, Muller M, Conings B (2016) Toxicity of organometal halide perovskite solar cells. Nat Mater 15:247251 22. Habisreutinger SN, Noel NK, Snaith HJ (2018) Hysteresis index: a ﬁgure without merit for quantifying hysteresis in perovskite solar cells. ACS Energy Lett 3:24722476 23. Jiang Y, Luo B, Jiang F, Jiang F, Fuentes-Hernandez C, Liu T et al (2016) Efﬁcient colorful perovskite solar cells using a top polymer electrode simultaneously as spectrally selective antireﬂection coating. Nano Lett 16:78297835 24. Saidaminov MI, Abdelhady AL, Maculan G, Bakr OM (2015) Retrograde solubility of formamidinium and methylammonium lead halide perovskites enabling rapid single crystal growth. Chem Commun 51:1765817661 25. Jamal MS, Bashar MS, Hasan AKM, Almutairi ZA, Alharbi HF, Alharthi NH et al (2018) Fabrication techniques and morphological analysis of perovskite absorber layer for high- efﬁciency perovskite solar cell: a review. Renew Sust Energ Rev 98:469488 26. Im JH, Kim HS, Park NG (2014) Morphology-photovoltaic property correlation in perovskite solar cells: one-step verus two-step deposition of CH3NH3PbI3. APL Mater 2:18 27. Huang L, Li C, Sun X, Xu R, Du Y, Ni J et al (2017) Efﬁcient and hysteresis-less pseudo- planar heterojunction perovskite solar cells fabricated by a facile and solution-saving one-step dip-coating method. Org Electron 40:1323 28. Zhang T, Guo N, Li G, Qian X, Li L, Zhao Y (2016) A general non-CH3NH3X (X=I, Br) one-step deposition of CH3NH3PbX3 perovskite for high performance solar cells. J Mater Chem A 4:32453248 29. Liang K, Mitzi DB, Prikas MT (1998) Synthesis and characterization of organic-inorganic perovskite thin ﬁlms prepared using a versatile two-step dipping technique. Chem Mater 10:403411 Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  29 30. Li M, Yan X, Kang Z, Liao X, Li Y, Zheng X et al (2017) Enhanced efﬁciency and stability of perovskite solar cells via anti-solvent treatment in two-step deposition method. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 9:72247231 31. Bi D, El-Zohry AM, Hagfeldt A, Boschloo G (2014) Improved morphology control using a modiﬁed two-step method for efﬁcient perovskite solar cells. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 6:1875118757 32. Kim YY, Park EY, Yang TY, Noh JH, Shin TJ, Jeon NJ et al (2018) Fast two-step deposition of perovskite via mediator extraction treatment for large-area, high-performance perovskite solar cells. J Mater Chem A 6:1244712454 33. Zhou H, Chen Q, Yang Y (2015) Vapor-assisted solution process for perovskite materials and solar cells. MRS Bull 40:667673 34. Xiao L, Xu J, Luan J, Zhang B, Tan Z, Yao J (2017) Achieving mixed halide perovskite via halogen exchange during vapor-assisted solution process for efﬁcient and stable perovskite solar cells. Org Electron 50:3342 35. Chen Q, Zhou H, Hong Z, Luo S, Duan HS, Wang HH (2014) Planar heterojunction perovskite solar cells via vapor-assisted solution process. J Am Chem Soc 136:622625 36. Liu C, Fan J, Zhang X, Shen Y, Yang L, Mai Y (2015) Hysteretic behavior upon light soaking in perovskite solar cells prepared via modiﬁed vapor-assisted solution process. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 7:90669071 37. Kajal P, Ghosh K, Powar S (2018) Manufacturing techniques of perovskite solar cells. In: Applications of solar energy. Springer, pp 341364 38. Luo P, Zhou S, Xia W, Cheng J, Xu C, Lu Y (2017) Chemical vapor deposition of perovskites for photovoltaic application. Adv Mater Interfaces 4:19 39. Leyden MR, Ono LK, Raga SR, Kato Y, Wang S, Qi Y (2014) High performance perovskite solar cells by hybrid chemical vapor deposition. J Mater Chem A 2:1874218745 40. Leyden MR, Lee MV, Raga SR, Qi Y (2015) Large formamidinium lead trihalide perovskite solar cells using chemical vapor deposition with high reproducibility and tunable chlorine concentrations. J Mater Chem A 3:1609716103 41. Ng A, Ren Z, Shen Q, Cheung SH, Gokkaya HC, So SK et al (2016) Crystal engineering for low defect density and high efﬁciency hybrid chemical vapor deposition grown perovskite solar cells. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 8:3280532814 42. Luo P, Liu Z, Xia W, Yuan C, Cheng J, Lu Y (2015) A simple in situ tubular chemical vapor deposition processing of large-scale efﬁcient perovskite solar cells and the research on their novel roll-over phenomenon in J-V curves. J Mater Chem A 3:1244312451 43. Fan P, Gu D, Liang GX, Luo JT, Chen JL, Zheng ZH et al (2016) High-performance perovskite CH3NH3PbI3 thin ﬁlms for solar cells prepared by single-source physical vapour deposition. Sci Rep 6:19 44. Liu M, Johnston MB, Snaith HJ (2013) Efﬁcient planar heterojunction perovskite solar cells by vapour deposition. Nature 501:395398 45. Hwang B, Lee JS (2017) A strategy to design high-density nanoscale devices utilizing vapor deposition of metal halide perovskite materials. Adv Mater 29:17 46. Cao Q, Yang S, Gao Q, Lei L, Yu Y, Shao J (2016) Fast and controllable crystallization of perovskite ﬁlms by microwave irradiation process. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 8:78547861 47. Wolverton M (2018) Perovskite solar cells reveal excitonic optical transitions. AIP Scilight, pp 080003 48. Spooner E (2019) Organic photovoltaics vs 3rd-generation solar cell technologies. Ossila Ltd, Shefﬁeld, UK 49. Green MA, Hishikawa Y, Dunlop ED, Levi DH, Hohl-Ebinger J, Yoshita M et al (2019) Solar cell efﬁciency tables (version 53). Prog Photovolt 27:312 50. Kojima A, Teshima K, Shirai Y, Miyasaka T (2009) Organometal halide perovskites as visible- light sensitizers for photovoltaic cells. J Am Chem Soc 131:60506051 51. Im JH, Lee CR, Lee JW, Park SW, Park NG (2011) 6.5% efﬁcient perovskite quantum-dot- sensitized solar cell. Nanoscale 3:40884093 30 L. Zhang et al. 52. Kim HS, Lee CR, Im JH, Lee KB, Moehl T, Marchioro A et al (2012) Lead iodide perovskite sensitized all-solid-state submicron thin ﬁlm mesoscopic solar cell with efﬁciency exceeding 9%. Sci Rep 2:17 53. Green MA, Ho-Baillie A (2017) Perovskite solar cells: the birth of a new era in photovoltaics. ACS Energy Lett 2:822830 54. Ansari MIH, Qurashi A, Nazeeruddin MK (2018) Frontiers, opportunities, and challenges in perovskite solar cells: a critical review. J Photochem Photobiol C 35:124 55. Jin J, Li H, Chen C, Zhang B, Xu L, Dong B et al (2017) Enhanced performance of perovskite solar cells with zinc chloride additives. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 9:4287542882 56. Boopathi KM, Mohan R, Huang TY, Budiawan W, Lin MY, Lee CH et al (2016) Synergistic improvements in stability and performance of lead iodide perovskite solar cells incorporating salt additives. J Mater Chem A 4:15911597 57. Seo JY, Matsui T, Luo J, Correa-Baena JP, Giordano F, Saliba M et al (2016) Ionic liquid control crystal growth to enhance planar perovskite solar cells efﬁciency. Adv Energy Mater 6:16 58. Li M, Xia D, Jiang A, Du X, Fan X, Qiu L et al (2019) Enhanced crystallization and opti- mized morphology of perovskites through doping an indium-based metalorganic assembly: achieving signiﬁcant solar cell efﬁciency enhancements. Energy Technol 7:19 59. Aeineh N, Barea EM, Behjat A, ShariﬁN, Mora-Sero I (2017) Inorganic surface engineering to enhance perovskite solar cell efﬁciency. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 9:1318113187 60. Cao J, Yin J, Yuan S, Zhao Y, Li J, Zheng N (2015) Thiols as interfacial modiﬁers to enhance the performance and stability of perovskite solar cells. Nanoscale 7:94439447 61. Jung K, Lee J, Kim J, Chae WS, Lee MJ (2016) Solution-processed ﬂexible planar perovskite solar cells: a strategy to enhance efﬁciency by controlling the ZnO electron transfer layer, PbI2 phase, and CH3NH3 PbI3 morphologies. J Power Sour 324:142149 62. Shahiduzzaman M, Visal S, Kuniyoshi M, Kaneko T, Umezu S, Katsumata T et al (2019) Low- temperature-processed brookite-based TiO2 heterophase junction enhances performance of planar perovskite solar cells. Nano Lett 19:598604 63. Zhao Y, Zhao Y, Zhou W, Li Q, Fu R, Yu D et al (2018) In situ cesium modiﬁcation at interface enhances the stability of perovskite solar cells. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 10:3320533213 64. Hu L, Li M, Yang K, Xiong Z, Yang B, Wang M et al (2018) PEDOT:PSS monolayers to enhance the hole extraction and stability of perovskite solar cells. J Mater Chem A 6:16583 16589 65. Seo JY, Uchida R, Kim HS, Saygili Y, Luo J, Moore C et al (2018) Boosting the efﬁciency of perovskite solar cells with CsBr-modiﬁed mesoporous TiO2 beads as electron-selective contact. Adv Funct Mater 28:17 66. Chen C, Liu D, Zhang B, Bi W, Li H, Jin J et al (2018) Carrier interfacial engineering by bismuth modiﬁcation for efﬁcient and thermoresistant perovskite solar cells. Adv Energy Mater 8:17036591703659 67. Gao Y, Wu Y, Lu H, Chen C, Liu Y, Bai X et al (2019) CsPbBr 3 perovskite nanoparticles as additive for environmentally stable perovskite solar cells with 20.46% efﬁciency. Nano Energy 59:517526 68. Tong J, Song Z, Kim DH, Chen X, Chen C, Palmstrom AF et al (2019) Carrier lifetimes of 1 µs in Sn-Pb perovskites enable efﬁcient all-perovskite tandem solar cells. Science 364:475479 69. Gao Y, Wu Y, Liu Y, Chen C, Shen X, Bai X et al (2019) Improved interface charge extraction by double electron transport layers for high-efﬁcient planar perovskite solar cells. Sol RRL 3:111 70. Zhou Z, Wang Z, Zhou Y, Pang S, Wang D, Xu H et al (2015) Methylamine-gas-induced defect-healing behavior of CH3NH3PbI3 thin ﬁlms for perovskite solar cells. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl 54:97059709 71. LeeDK,JeongDN,AhnTK,ParkNG(2019)Precursorengineeringforalarge-areaperovskite solar cell with 19% efﬁciency. ACS Energy Lett 4:23932401 Recent Progress in Perovskite Solar Cell  31 72. Li X, Bi D, Yi C, Decoppet JD, Luo J, Zakeeruddin SM et al (2016) A vacuum ﬂashassisted solution process for high-efﬁciency large-area perovskite solar cells. Science 353:5862 73. Chou LH, Wang XF, Osaka I, Wu CG (2018) Scalable ultrasonic spray-processing technique for manufacturing large-area CH3NH3PbI3 perovskite solar cells. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 10:3804238050 74. Park M, Cho W, Lee G, Hong SC, Kim M, Yoon J et al (2019) Highly reproducible large-area perovskite solar cell fabrication via continuous megasonic spray coating of CH3NH3PbI3. Small 15:17 75. Bag S, Deneault JR, Durstock MF (2017) Aerosol-jet-assisted thin-ﬁlm growth of CH3NH3PbI3 perovskites-a means to achieve high quality, defect-free ﬁlms for efﬁcient solar cells. Adv Energy Mater 7:111 76. Tang S, Deng Y, Zheng X, Bai Y, Fang Y, Dong Q et al (2017) Composition engineering in doctor-blading of perovskite solar cells. Adv Energy Mater 7:17 77. Hwang K, Jung YS, Heo YJ, Scholes FH, Watkins SE, Subbiah J et al (2015) Toward large scale roll-to-roll production of fully printed perovskite solar cells. Adv Mater 27:12411247 78. Frost JM, Butler KT, Brivio F, Hendon CH, Mv Schilfgaarde, Walsh A (2014) Atomistic origins of high-performance in hybrid halide perovskite solar cells. Nano Lett 14:25842590 79. Niu G, Guo X, Wang L (2015) Review of recent progress in chemical stability of perovskite solar cells. J Mater Chem A 3:89708980 80. Wang D, Wright M, Elumalai NK, Uddin A (2016) Stability of perovskite solar cells. Sol Energy Mater Sol Cells 147:255275 81. Smith IC, Hoke ET, Solis-Ibarra D, McGehee MD, Karunadasa HI (2014) A layered hybrid perovskite solar-cell absorber with enhanced moisture stability. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl 53:1123211235 82. Xu Y, Xu S, Shao H, Jiang H, Cui Y, Wang C (2018) Dendrimer ligands-capped CH3NH3PbBr 3 perovskite nanocrystals with delayed halide exchange and record stability against both moisture and water. Nanotechnology 29:17 83. Cai Y, Wang S, Sun M, Li X, Xiao Y (2018) Mixed cations and mixed halide perovskite solar cell with lead thiocyanate additive for high efﬁciency and long-term moisture stability. Org Electron 53:249255 84. Chen C, Li H, Jin J, Cheng Y, Liu D, Song H et al (2017) Highly enhanced long time stability of perovskite solar cells by involving a hydrophobic hole modiﬁcation layer. Nano Energy 32:165173 85. Hangoma PM, Ma Y, Shin I, Liu Y, Park WI, Jung YK et al (2018) Improved moisture stability of perovskite solar cells with a surface-treated PCBM layer. Sol RRL 3:110 86. Im K, Heo JH, Im SH, Kim J (2017) Scalable synthesis of Ti-doped MoO2 nanoparticle-hole- transporting-material with high moisture stability for CH3NH3PbI3 perovskite solar cells. Chem Eng J 330:698705 87. Ito S, Tanaka S, Manabe K, Nishino H (2014) Effects of surface blocking layer of Sb2S3 on nanocrystalline TiO2 for CH3NH3PbI3 perovskite solar cells. J Phys Chem C 118:16995 17000 88. OuaﬁM, Jaber B, Atourki L, Bekkari R, Laanab L (2018) Improving UV stability of MAPbI3 perovskite thin ﬁlms by bromide incorporation. J Alloys Compd 746:391398 89. SunY,FangX,MaZ,XuL,LuY,YuQetal(2017)EnhancedUV-lightstabilityoforganometal halide perovskite solar cells with interface modiﬁcation and a UV absorption layer. J Mater Chem C 5:86828687 90. Cao J, Lv X, Zhang P, Chuong TT, Wu B, Feng X et al (2018) Plant sunscreen and Co(II)/(III) porphyrins for UV-resistant and thermally stable perovskite solar cells: from natural to artiﬁcial. Adv Mater 30:19 91. Jin J, Chen C, Li H, Cheng Y (2017) Enhanced performance and photostability of perovskite solar cells by introduction of ﬂuorescent carbon dots. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 9:14518 14524 92. Jin J, Li H, Chen C, Zhang B, Bi W, Song Z et al (2018) Improving efﬁciency and light stability of perovskite solar cells by incorporating YVO4:Eu3+, Bi3+ nanophosphor into the mesoporous TiO2 layer. ACS Appl Energy Mater 1:20962102 32 L. Zhang et al. 93. Chen C, Li H, Jin J, Chen X, Cheng Y, Zheng Y et al (2017) Long-lasting nanophosphors applied to UV-resistant and energy storage perovskite solar cells. Adv Energy Mater 7:18 94. Chen C, Wu Y, Liu L, Gao Y, Chen X, Bi W et al (2019) Interfacial engineering and photon downshifting of CsPbBr 3 nanocrystals for efﬁcient, stable, and colorful vapor phase perovskite solar cells. Adv Sci 6:19 95. Dualeh A, Tetreault N, Moehl T, Gao P, Nazeeruddin MK, Gratzel M (2014) Effect of annealing temperature on ﬁlm morphology of organic-inorganic hybrid pervoskite solid-state solar cells. Adv Funct Mater 24:32503258 96. Philippe B, Park BW, Lindblad R, Oscarsson J, Ahmadi S, Johansson EMJ (2015) Chemical andelectronic structure characterizationofleadhalide perovskitesandstabilitybehaviorunder different exposuresa photoelectron spectroscopy investigation. Chem Mater 27:17201731 97. Shao F, Qin P, Wang D, Zhang G, Wu B, He J et al (2019) Enhanced photovoltaic performance and thermal stability of CH3NH3PbI3 perovskite through lattice symmetrization. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 11:740746 98. Zou J, Liu W, Deng W, Lei G, Zeng S, Xiong J et al (2018) An efﬁcient guanidinium isothiocyanate additive for improving the photovoltaic performances and thermal stability of perovskite solar cells. Electrochim Acta 291:297303 99. Zhang J, Mao W, Duan J, Huang S, Zhang Z, Ou-Yang W et al (2019) Enhanced efﬁ- ciency and thermal stability of perovskite solar cells using poly(9-vinylcarbazole) modiﬁed perovskite/PCBM interface. Electrochim Acta 318:384391 100. Park C, Ko H, Sin DH, Song KC, Cho K (2017) Organometal halide perovskite solar cells with improved thermal stability via grain boundary passivation using a molecular additive. Adv Funct Mater 27:18 101. Baranwal AK, Kanaya S, Peiris TAN, Mizuta G, Nishina T, Kanda H et al (2016) 100 C thermal stability of printable perovskite solar cells using porous carbon counter electrodes. Chemsuschem 9:26042608 102. Singh P, Rana PJS, Dhingra P, Kar P (2016) Towards toxicity removal in lead based perovskite solar cells by compositional gradient using manganese chloride. J Mater Chem C 4:31013105 103. Johansson MB, Zhu H, Johansson EMJ (2016) Extended photo-conversion spectrum in low- toxic bismuth halide perovskite solar cells. J Phys Chem Lett 7:34673471 State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon/Organic Heterojunction Solar Cells: Challenges and Future Jaker Hossain, A. T. M. Saiful Islam, Koji Kasahara, Ryo Ishikawa, Keiji Ueno, and Hajime Shirai Abstract In this chapter, we delineate the present state-of-the-art of solution- processed PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cells in detail. Here, we discuss the emergence, principle of operation, fabrication process, carrier transport prop- erties, and evolution of the efﬁciency of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cells. We also discuss with the challenges of the solar cells and propose few design guidelines to further improve the efﬁciency of the solar cells in future. The SCAPS- 1D simulation reveals that the use of n+ CdS or In3Se4 BSF layer which can be deposited by simple solution process enhances the efﬁciency of the PEDOT:PSS/n- Si heterojunction solar cells to 30.9435.05% with a higher VOC of 0.89 V. The short-circuit current of the solar cells can be further increased by the use of proper ARC layer on the top of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cells. 1 Introduction The study of photovoltaics as a promising renewable clean energy technology has become indispensable due to the global energy challenges as well as the greenhouse effects. In the last few decades, crystalline silicon (c-Si) solar cells have covered over 90% share of the market in the ﬁeld of photovoltaic technology despite its very high temperature of 1400 C and high vacuum fabrication process [1, 2]. Nowadays, the efﬁciency of this solar cell using back contact structure has been demonstrated to 26.33% with a practical module size of 180 cm2 [3]. J. Hossain (B) Solar Energy Laboratory, Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University of Rajshahi, Rajshahi 6205, Bangladesh e-mail: jak_apee@ru.ac.bd A. T. M. Saiful Islam Department of Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Science & Technology University, Gopalganj 8100, Bangladesh K. Kasahara  R. Ishikawa  K. Ueno  H. Shirai Graduate School of Science and Engineering, Saitama University, Saitama 338-8570, Japan  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021 J. K. Roy et al. (eds.), Development of Solar Cells, Challenges and Advances in Computational Chemistry and Physics 32, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-69445-6_2 33 34 J. Hossain et al. Almost a decade ago, a research group of Princeton University introduced a new type of heterojunction solar cell based on the n-type crystalline silicon and a conductive polymer poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiphene):poly (styrene sulfonate) (PEDOT:PSS), i.e., PEDOT:PSS/n-Si structure [4]. These types of solar cells combine the high efﬁciency of silicon solar cells and the advantages of low-cost solution processed organic polymers being simple to process on silicon substrate and thus reducing high technological demands [48]. Thin ﬁlms of the PEDOT:PSS polymer are mechanically ﬂexible and highly transparent in the visible spectrum [911]. The electrical conductivity of this polymer has been modiﬁed to 10001500 S/cm by incorporating different types of polar solvents, e.g., methanol (MeOH) or ethylene glycol (EG) solvent alone, MeOH/EG cosolvents, DMSO, and graphene oxide (GO) to enhance the efﬁciency of the solar cells [1216]. And also, the unifor- mity of spin-coated PEDOT:PSS ﬁlm on hydrophobic H-terminated crystalline Si has been improved by the addition of surfactants like Zonyl and Triton X100 [5, 17]. The efﬁciency of solution-processed organic/n-Si heterojunction solar cells has already increased to 1320% by adjusting a type of solvents, the PEDOT:PSS ﬁlm thickness, and the resistivity of silicon wafers without an extra light-harvesting tech- nique [8, 1824]. Day by day, the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cells are becoming compatible with the well-established c-Si PV technology. Most recently, the modules of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells have also been reported with ten units of series-connected 2  2 cm2 (4 inch)-sized cells showing an output power of 0.37 W (7.3 W) having an efﬁciency of 1314% (1112%) fabricating by all solution process [25]. In this chapter, we discuss the present state of the art of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si hetero- junction solar cells along with challenges associated with the fabrication process and provide some guidelines to further improve the efﬁciency of the solar cells in future. 2 PEDOT:PSS and PEDOT:PSS/c-Si Heterojunction Solar Cells The chemical structure of the PEDOT:PSS polymer is depicted in Fig. 1a. The chem- ical structures of PEDOT:PSS consist of two ionomers. One ionomer is the conju- gated hydrophobic and conductive polymer, PEDOT which transports the positive charges. Another ionomer is the hydrophilic and insulating PSS chain which trans- ports negative charge. However, spectroscopic ellipsometry (SE) study reveals that the average carrier concentration of the modiﬁed PEDOT:PSS is about 10201021 cm3 [26]. Thus, the PEDOT:PSS polymer has metal-like properties. The Schottky junction is frequently observed at the metal/semiconductor junction and there are many studies which consider n-Si/PEDOT:PSS interface as Schottky-like junction [2731]. In addition, PEDOT:PSS shows optical anisotropic behavior, uniaxial with the optic axis parallel to the surface normal [32] and large HOMO and LUMO energy different (5.05 eV) [33]. State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon  35 (a) (b) (c) Fig. 1 a The chemical structure of PEDOT:PSS polymer, b the schematic structure of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si HOT solar cell, and c the schematic band diagram of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction HOT solar cells Because of having high transparency, preferred work function and enhanced hole mobility PEDOT:PSS became the most extensively studied polymer [3436]. A number of solution process techniques such as spin coating, electrospray, chemical mist deposition, screen printing, and ink jet can be used to fabricate silicon-polymer (PEDOT:PSS) heterojunction, which allows a wide range of parameter controls to optimize the junction [5, 3739]. Figure 1b depicted the schematic structure of the c-Si/PEDOT:PSS heterojunction with organic thin-layer (HOT) solar cell, in which c-Si is responsible for adequate amount of light absorption; on the other hand, PEDOT:PSS serves as both the anti-reﬂection and carrier transporting layer [4042]. 2.1 Electronic Structure of PEDOT:PSS/c-Si Heterojunction Solar Cells The device operation of PEDOT:PSS/c-Si heterojunction solar cell is based on charge-selective n-type Si and the synthetic hole-conducting p-type metal PEDOT:PSS as schematically shown in Fig. 1c. The photogenerated holes at the silicon pass through the junction and are collected by the anode and photogenerated 36 J. Hossain et al. electrons are blocked by the PEDOT:PSS layer due to higher LUMO and collected by the cathode. Despite the immense success of this device concept, the working principle has not been entirely resolved. There are few studies which consider PEDOT:PSS/n-Si interface as Schottky-like junction ascribing the high open- circuit voltage (VOC) to an un-pinning of Fermi level at the junction [2731]. In a Schottky junction, carrier transport is mainly dominated by thermionic emission of majority carriers over the potential barrier formed at the interface [43]. There are some other reports which consider this junction as a conventional abrupt p+n hetero- junction [36, 44, 45]. In a conventional abrupt p+n heterojunction, carrier transport is dominated by the diffusion of minority carriers in the bulk silicon [36]. 2.2 Fabrication Procedure of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si Heterojunction Solar Cells Most of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cells discussed in this chapter were produced by spin-coating method. Here, we, therefore, discuss the recipe of the spin-coated PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells. The highly conductive PEDOT:PSS (CleviosR PH1000) purchased from Heraeus was used in this study which contains 0.37 wt.% of PEDOT and 0.93 wt.% of PSS. Before use, the solution was ﬁltered out with a syringe ﬁlter of 0.45 μm pore size to remove the coagulated parts and other contaminants. The PEDOT:PSS solution was further modiﬁed by adding ethylene glycol (EG) and capstone ﬂuorosurfactant in the ratio of 93:7:0.16 wt.% to increase conductivityandtoimprovethewettabilityofthesolutionforuniformdepositionover the hydrophobic silicon surface. As a ﬁrst step, 250-μm-thick 100 oriented plain n-Si substrates were cleaned by standard RCA cleaning. RCA cleaning was done in two steps. First, the samples were immersed in RCA1 solution of DI water, 37% ammonium hydroxide (NH4OH), and 30% hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) in the weight ratio of 5:1:1 for 15 min, followed by rinsing in DI water. Secondly, these RCA1 cleaned samples were immersed in RCA2 solution of DI water, 37% hydrochloric acid (HCl), and 30% H2O2 in the weight ratio of 6:1:1 for 10 min, followed by rinsing in DI water. Then, the native oxide was removed by hydroﬂuoric acid treatment and blow-dried with N2. In the next stage, the PEDOT:PSS was spin coated at 2000 rpm for 30 s, (thickness: 80 nm) then the ﬁlms were annealed at 140 C for 30 min to dispel the residual solvent. The Ag paste was screen printed onto the PEDOT:PSS as anode and screen-printed Ag together with evaporated Al at the backside worked as a cathode. State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon  37 3 Carrier Transport in PEDOT:PSS/n-Si Heterojunction: Schottky or p+n Junction? To understand the junction properties, CV, JV in dark and under the illumination of 1.5AM simulated light, EQE of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells with different Nd of n-Si substrate, together with two-diode model analysis of the experimental dark JV characteristics are studied in detail. Then, these data are compared assuming Schottky and pn junction models. 3.1 Modeling of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si Junction As mentioned in Sect. 2.1, there may form two possible junctions at the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si interface, namely, Schottky junction and p+-n junction. In both cases, the JV characteristics under illumination can be described by an ideal diode equation (Eq. 1) [46]. J(V ) = J0  exp qV kT  1  Jsc (1) From the deﬁnition of open-circuit voltage (Voc), by setting J = 0, Eq. 1 can be rewritten as follows: Voc kT q ln  Jsc J0  (2) The Voc is dominated by J0 and Jsc. Usually, the Jsc varies in small scale, whereas J0 varies in order, so the Voc is mostly dependent on J0. However, it is well known that the J0 of a Schottky junction is described by the thermionic emission of the majority carriers. On the other hand, the diffusion of the minority carrier dominates the pn junction [46]. Therefore, the J0 for both the Schottky and pn junctions can be written as follows: J0 = AT 2 exp  qB kT  (3) J0 = n2 i μpkT L pNd (4) respectively, where Ais Richardson constants and J. M. Andrews et al. reported its value 110 A/(cm K)2 for majority carrier by considering tunneling and scattering at phonon together with a small contribution of majority carrier diffusion for moderately doped silicon [47]. From Eq. 3, at a constant junction temperature (T) the J0 of Schottky junction is varied with Schottky barrier height (B), and the B varies 38 J. Hossain et al. slightly at very high Nd [46]. In Eq. 4, ni represent the intrinsic carrier concentration of the Si substrate (1010 cm3 at 300 K [48, 49]), μp and L p are the minority carrier mobility and diffusion length, respectively. So, the J0 of the pn junction is greatly inﬂuenced by minority carrier density at the bulk. However, JV characteristic (Eq. 1) of single diode model is only consid- ering the bulk recombination, but in practice, junction parasitic resistance (series Rs and shunt Rsh) with recombination and generation of the carrier at space-charge region are also the dominating factors [50]. In that case, the JV characteristics of an abrupt pn junction are described by two-diode model [46]: J = J01  exp q(V Rs J) n1kT  1  + J02  exp q(V Rs J) n2kT  1  + V Rs J Rsh Jsc (5) where J01 is associated with bulk diffusion contribution and the J02 from the trap- associated generation and recombination at the space-charge region. 3.2 Analysis of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si Junction 3.2.1 Inversion at Heterojunction Interface It is well known that, when a p-type material meets with n-Si, an inversion layer is formed at the interface. Figure 2 shows a typical band diagram of an inversion interface. Depending on the value of surface potential (ψs) the inversion layer is classiﬁed as weak and strong. In case of the Schottky junction, the Fermi level pinning is frequently observed at the surface defects, and the threshold V bi is determined by the difference between the intrinsic energy of c-Si and the Fermi energy [46]. qVbi(weak)  E f Ei  Fig. 2 Energy band structure of an organic/n-Si heterojunction State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon  39 = (Ec Ei) (EcE f )  = Eg 2 kT q ln Nc Nd (6) On the other hand, the band bending in the intrinsic energy level of Si crosses the Fermi level when the surface of the silicon is passivated sufﬁciently, which induces a strong inversion at the surface. In that case, the V bi is determined by qVbi(Strong) 2 E f Ei  = 2 (Ec Ei) (EcE f )  = Eg 2kT q ln Nc Nd (7) 3.3 Junction Type of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si The built-in potential at PEDOT:PSS/n-Si junction for different Nd (ranging from 1016 to 1018 cm3) of Si substrates was extracted from 1/C2-V characterization at a measurement frequency of 100 kHz [33]. It was observed that built-in potential (V bi) was increased with increasing doping density of the n-Si. The V bi together with weak inversion (Eq. 7) and strong inversion (Eq. 8) as a function of Nd is illustrated in Fig. 3. All the experimental V bi are at the strong inversion zone, suggesting that n-type Si is fully inverted to a p-type at the interface without additional doping. Figure 4 depicts JV and normalized EQE under 1.5AM simulated solar light of solar cell devices with the corresponding donor-doped Si substrates. The V oc Fig. 3 Vbi of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si junction with respect to strong and weak inversion for different Nd of Si substrates 40 J. Hossain et al. (a) (b) 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 1.0 x 10 16 3.9 x 10 16 [cm -3] 8.7 x 10 17 Current Density (mA/cm2) Voltage (volt) 400 600 800 1000 1200 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.0 x 10 16 3.9 x 10 16 [cm -3] 8.7 x 10 17 Normalized EQE Wavelength (nm) Fig. 4 a Light JV characteristics and b EQE of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells for different Nd of Si substrate increased from 563 to 623 mV with increasing Nd of the Si substrate because of rising the V bi, and highly conductive nature of the PEDOT:PSS, which lead toward higher (70%) FF for all the fabricated devices, higher FF also indicating good passivation of the Si surface by PEDOT:PSS. However, Jsc is slightly reduced for higher Nd of solar cells. A reason is, with increasing Nd the carrier diffusion length decreases, and the recombination center increases, and as a result, the EQE at longer wavelength (above 600 nm) region decreases with increasing Nd. On the other hand, due to the enhancement of V bi with Nd, the carrier collection near the junction will also increase with Nd. Thus, higher EQE is observed for high Nd solar cells at the short wavelength (550 nm), which are expected to be absorbed nearby the top surface [51] (in this case near PEDOT:PSS/n-Si interface). Figure 5 illustrates the log(J)log(V) response curve in the dark for the corre- sponding devices. The entire dark response can be sectioned in three parts which are labeled as I, II, and III. In region I (0.1 V), both the forward and reverse currents increase almost linearly with the voltage. This equivalents to a parallel resistance (Rp) path with the junction, which is an alternative path for the photogenerated carriers. Two possible reasons of increasing current density with increasing Nd are as follows: Firstly, the tunneling current at the junction becomes higher for very high Nd, because of shrinking the depletion region. Secondly, Schottky barrier lowering at the n-Si/Al interface becomes more dominant for a very high Nd [52] and making easy access for electron from n-Si to Al. In region II (0.1  V  V oc) , the current density increases exponentially with the applied bias. The temperature dependency study of the solar cells with different Nd of substrate suggests that the current conduction mechanism in region II is dominating by diffusion of carriers and recombination in the space-charge region, and similar phenomenon is also observed by other groups [53, 54]. From the analysis of experimental data by ﬁtting two-diode model, as frequently done for pn State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon  41 Fig. 5 Dark JV characteristics of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells for different Nd of Si substrate. The dotted line represents the reverse-biased current of the corresponding device junction [44, 54], it is observed that the J0 is suppressed by increasing Nd. This suppression of J0 in bulk diffusion region is tightly related to the V oc enhancement [44]. In region III, when the forward applied voltage increased above V oc, the slow rate of change of current indicates that the series resistance becomes dominating. The experimental J01 is compared with assuming Schottky junction (Eq. 3) and pn junction model (Eq. 4), the J0 is about three order lower for the experimental devices compared to the Schottky junction model [33]. These results suggest that the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si junction is almost determined by a p+-n junction. The band diagram for PEDOT:PSS/Si interface having Si donor density of 3.9  1016cm3 is shown in Fig. 6. The V bi and position of the Fermi level with respect to the conduction band were determined by CV characterization. In addition, the HOMO-LUMO energy difference of PEDOT:PSS of 5.05 eV is determined by kelvin-probe measurement, which is nearly equal to the previously reported values [5559]. As seen, the intrinsic Fermi level crosses the Fermi energy that induces Fig. 6 Derived energy band diagram of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si interface from experimental result 42 J. Hossain et al. a strong inversion at the interface. Additionally, the carrier concentration of the PEDOT:PSS was 34 order higher than the Si substrate used in this study. All these results suggest that a p+n junction is formed at the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si interface. Also, there is a large band offset between the conduction band top of the n-Si and the LUMO of the PEDOT:PSS. Thus, majority carrier electrons are effectively blocked by the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si interface, and the PEDOT:PSS works effectively as hole-selective layer. 3.4 Evolution of the PEDOT:PSS/c-Si Heterojunction Solar Cells The evaluation of efﬁciency of the PEDOT:PSS/c-Si front-junction solar cells is delineated in Fig. 7. During the emergence of the PEDOT:PSS/c-Si heterojunction solar cells in 2011 the efﬁciency of the cells was 10.1% [4]. The power conver- sion efﬁciency (PCE) of this solar cells was further improved to 10.813.3% with planar Si substrate by increasing the conductivity and uniformity of the PEDOT:PSS ﬁlms employing different type of solvents (e.g., MeOH, EG, mixed of MeOH/EG, or DMSO), adjusting solution concentration and thickness of the PEDOT:PSS as well as resistivity of the silicon substrate [21, 3538]. There are a lot of design modi- ﬁcations like modiﬁcation of PEDOT:PSS; addition of nanomaterials; light trap- ping; front, intermediate, and back interface engineering; metal nanowire; buried metal electrode; and dopant-free back surface ﬁeld (BSF) layer which have been employed for further improvement of the efﬁciency of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si hetero- junction solar cells [19, 6065]. The efﬁciency was farther improved to 15.4% by introducing the anti-reﬂection (AR) coating without additional light management (texturing, pillar) system [39]. In 2016, the efﬁciency of the solar cells was reported to Fig. 7 Evaluation of PEDOT:PSS/c-Si front- and back-junction solar cells efﬁciency with time. The highest efﬁciency obtained in a respective year is shown by the red and green marks [46, 18, 20, 24, 34, 36, 6773] State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon  43 15.9% by Funda et al. [22]. The efﬁciency of the solution-processed PEDOT:PSS/c- Si solar cells reached to 17.34% by structural, electrical, and interfacial engineering simultaneously in 2018 [66]. Most recently, the PCE of PEDOT:PSS/c-Si solar cells was increased to over 20% with a back:PEDOT structure in textured Si substrate which is actually a silicon pn junction where PEDOT:PSS was used as a p+ back surface ﬁeld (BSF) layer and which also requires conventional high-temperature processing steps in addition to low-temperature solution process [40]. Therefore, it can be concluded that after a decade of emergence the efﬁciency of the PEDOT:PSS/c-Si solar cells has reached to 20% well below the efﬁciency of the existing silicon solar cells [3]. Therefore, it seems there is a need for a breakthrough to reach the efﬁciency of the solution-processed PEDOT:PSS/c-Si solar cells to that of the reported silicon solar cell. 4 Challenges of PEDOT:PSS/c-Si Heterojunction Solar Cells The stability is one of the most important challenges of the PEDOT:PSS/c-Si solar cells. The PEDOT:PSS polymer is very acidic (pH 1.8) and hygroscopic in nature. The device performance mainly deteriorates due to the oxidation of the PEDOT:PSS with oxygen and moisture from the air at the sulfonate group, SO3H in insulating PSS matrix [20, 21, 69, 74]. Therefore, the dispelling and/or substitution of PSS matrix and the phase separation of PEDOT:PSS polymer are the possible techniques to improve the stability of the solar cells. In this section, we discuss about the stability and different techniques used to improve the stability of the PEDOT:PSS/c-Si solar cells. 4.1 Light Soaking Stability The light exposure to PEDOT:PSS further enhances the oxidation of PEDOT:PSS at oxygen and moisture environment which results in the rapid decrease in conductivity of this polymer. Liu et al. revealed the development of a novel p-toluenesulfonic acid (PTSA)/DMSO post-treated method in 2015 which improved the stability of the HSCs stability of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells in soaking up to 24 h. as shown in Fig. 8a [20]. The rearrangement of the PEDOT particles and removal of the PSS matrix from the PEDOT:PSS chain from the ﬁlm was achieved through the PTSA/DMSO treatment which resulted in higher efﬁciency of up to 15.5% with light soaking stability restraining photo-oxidation. 44 J. Hossain et al. (a) (b) Fig. 8 a The stability of PEDOT:PSS/c-Si solar cells with and without PTSA/DMSO mixture treated PEDOT:PSS for light soaking under AM1.5G simulated solar light of 100 mW cm2 up to 24 h. Reprinted with permission from Publication [20]. Copyright (2015) John Wiley and Sons. b The stability of the Pristine and 2wt% Naﬁon-coated PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells for light soaking under AM1.5G simulated solar light exposure of 100 mW cm2 up to 22 h at relative humidity of 30%. Reprinted (adapted) with permission from [21]. Copyright (2016) American Chemical Society The effects of the perﬂuoropolymer, Naﬁon on the photovoltaic as well as light soaking stability of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cells have been investi- gated by Hossain et al. in year of 2016 [21]. Naﬁon has a ﬂuorocarbon backbone and perﬂuorovinyl ether branch with a sulfonic acid end group. The highly hydrophilic sulfonate group of Naﬁon reacts with PSS in PEDOT:PSS results in the reduced Coulombic interaction between PEDOT and PSS. On the other hand, the ﬂuoro- carbon backbone of Naﬁon is highly hydrophobic which provides resistance against moisture as well as preferential orientation PEDOT in PEDOT:PSS. The diffusion of oxygen and water to the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si junction also causes the oxidation of the interface which results in the further deterioration of the performance of the device. The Naﬁon polymer can repel water to enter into the junction because it has stronger hydrophobicity and better chemical stability to prevent moisture and impurity. These characteristics give rise to the extension of π-conjugation of PEDOT chains with higher carrier mobility and improved stability as well. The Naﬁon-coated State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon  45 PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells offer a higher PCE of 14.0% with better stability for light soaking up to 22 h. as compared to the pristine device as shown in Fig. 8b. Therefore, adding a protective coating on the top of the PEDOT:PSS to prevent direct contact with air is a great method of improving the stability of the solar cell. 4.2 Air Storage Stability The air storage stability of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells has also been examined by some groups. In 2013, J. Schmidt et al. have investigated the room temperature efﬁciency evaluation of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells with a comparable initial efﬁ- ciency of 11% during storage in darkness as shown in Fig. 9a [69]. It is seen from the ﬁgure that the cell efﬁciency degrades pronouncedly for the cell stored in air (green squares) as compared to the cell which is stored in dehumidiﬁed air in a desiccator (a) (b) Fig. 9 a The air storage stability of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells. The inset shows the JV curves under illumination during storage in air. Reproduced with permission from Ref. [69]. Copy- right (2013) AIP publishing. b The stability of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells with and without PTSA/DMSO mixture treated PEDOT:PSS for the air storage in the dark up to 10 days. Reprinted with permission from Publication [20]. Copyright (2015) John Wiley and Sons 46 J. Hossain et al. where no degradation is noticed (red circles). These experimental ﬁndings indi- cate that the observed degradation mainly happened owing to the interaction of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Siheterojunctionwithmoisturefromtheair.Theyalsoobservedthata 30 nm ALD-Al2O3 ﬁlm protector on PEDOT:PSS signiﬁcantly improved the stability of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si hybrid cells, as depicted in the ﬁgure (blue diamonds). In 2015, Liu et al. also demonstrated that PTSA/DMSO treatment can improve the air storage stability of PCE of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells stored in the dark for up to 10 days as shown in Fig. 9b. The hole extraction ability and stability of PEDOT:PSS monolayer are both improved by the water rinse on PEDOT:PSS ﬁlm as revealed by Hu et al. in 2018 [66]. In 2018, Kasahara et al. demonstrated an effective technique employing 20- nm-thick organic Lewis base 4,4-cyclohexylidenebis [N, N-bis(4-methylphenyl) benzenamine] (TAPC) as the protection layer for the PEDOT:PSS ﬁlm to reduce the oxidation of PEDOT:PSS [25]. The Raman spectra of 80-nm-thick PEDOT:PSS deposited by spin coating on n-Si without and with a 20-nm-thick TAPC protec- tion layer up to 3 days of storage in air are depicted in Fig. 10a, b. The features found at 1435 and 1453 cm1 correspond to the neutral (quinoid) CαCβ and oxidized (benzoid) Cα = Cβ symmetric stretching modes, respectively [20]. Neutral (quinoid) mode indicates more linear and extended π-conjugated chain which is advantageous for restraining the conductivity of PEDOT:PSS; on the other hand, the oxidized (benzoid) mode indicates coil-like conformation which results in decrease in conductivity. It is observed from the ﬁgures that quinoid mode was predominant in the TAPC- coated PEDOT:PSS ﬁlm after 3 days of air storage. On the other hand, oxidized Cα = Cβ double bond mode appears along with increase of anti-symmetrical Cα = Cβ stretching mode at 1532 cm1 for the Pristine PEDOT:PSS ﬁlm up to 3 days of air storage. These results reveal that stability of PEDOT:PSS in air improves due to the addition of TAPC protection layer. The JV curves for spin-coated PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells without and with a 20-nm-thick TAPC layer for 1 week of air storage are depicted in Fig. 10c, d, respectively. It is observed that the stability of the TAPC-coated device was signiﬁcantly improved even after 7 days of air storage. This enhances stability results as TAPC is a Lewis base having amine group and PSSH in PEDOT:PSS is a strong acid, and low concentrated TAPC diffuses during coating, neutralizes the PSSH, and forms a hydrophobic mixed layer on the contact surface that enhances the stability of the device in air. Stability test for a further long time is necessary in the solar cell module. State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon  47 (a) (b) (c) (d) Fig. 10 Raman spectra of PEDOT:PSS thin ﬁlm on c-Si up to 3 days of air storage: a Pristine and b coated with 20-nm-thick TAPC. And air storage stability of J-V curves of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells up to 1 week of air storage: c without and d with a 20-nm-thick TAPC layer. Reprinted with permission from Publication [25]. Copyright (2018) Elsevier 5 Future Directions to PEDOT:PSS/n-Si Heterojunction Solar Cells In this section, we discuss the future prospect of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solarcells.Theefﬁciencyofthedevicescanbefurtherimprovedwiththeuseofproper BSF and anti-reﬂection coating layer. 5.1 Use of BSF Layer for Higher Open-Circuit Voltage As we have mentioned, the efﬁciency of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cells has reached up to 20%. The enhancement in open-circuit voltage as well as efﬁ- ciency has also been tried to improve with the addition of a-Si and other dopant-free 48 J. Hossain et al. BSF layers. Moreover, back PEDOT and back-contact PEDOT:PSS/n-Si structures of the solar cells have also been explored for protecting the front PEDOT:PSS surface against ultraviolet (UV) damage and avoiding the optical loss due to front metal grid electrode. Recently, J. Schmidt et al. have designed and simulated a back-contact and back-junction (BC-BJ) solar cell with a limiting PCE of 25.1% and a V oc of 708 mV [75]. Herein, we propose and simulate PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cells with different types of BSF layers such as CdS and In3Se4 which show the signiﬁcant improvement in open-circuit voltage and efﬁciency of the solar cells. Nowadays, n-Si heterojunction solar cells with metal chalcogenides have also been reported [7678]. Moreover, n-type CdS thin ﬁlm has already been used to fabricate CdS/p-Si heterojunction solar cells with an efﬁciency of 12.29% [79]. More recently, metal chalcogenide thin ﬁlms have been deposited by low-cost solution process which can potentially be used in future solution-processed chalcogenide/c-Si heterojunction solar cells as well [8082]. The PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cells with CdS or In3Se4 n+ BSF layer which can be deposited by simple solution process have been simulated by solar cell capacitance simulator (SCAPS 1D) [8385]. Table 1 shows the parameters used in the device simulation. The details of the study can be found in other work [86]. Figure 11a shows the schematic energy diagram of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si/ n+-CdS or n+-In3Se4 heterojunction solar cells. The simulated JV curves of PEDOT:PSS/n- Si/ n+-CdS or n+-In3Se4 heterojunction solar cells are shown in Fig. 11b. It is seen from the ﬁgure that Pristine PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cell (i.e., without any BSF layer) shows an efﬁciency of 18.96% with VOC of 0.638 V, JSC of 38.83 mA/cm2, and FF of 76.45%. The efﬁciency of the solar cell signiﬁcantly increases with the addition of 200 nm CdS BSF layer. The efﬁciency of the devices further increases with a 500 nm In3Se4 n+ BSF layer. The open-circuit voltage of the devices increased to 0.89 V and PCE increased to 35.05% due to the use of In3Se4 n+ BSF layer. It is also observed in the ﬁgures that JSC also increases to 49.32 mA/cm2 with the use of In3Se4 BSF layer which mainly originated due to the improved absorption of longer wavelength light by the highly degenerate In3Se4 in the devices [86]. The built-in potential of the devices with different BSF layers is exhibited in Table 2. It is observed from the table that built-in potential greatly increases with the addition of degenerate partner BSF layer. 5.2 Efﬁcient Light Management: ARC Design for PEDO:PSS/n-Si Heterojunction Solar Cells In addition to the use of BSF layer, another technique that can be applied is the use of anti-reﬂection coating on the PEDO:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cells. The reﬂection of light from the solar cell surface is a major source of losses in energy conversion as silicon reﬂects more than 30% and, on the other hand, PEDOT:PSS on silicon substrate reﬂects about 20% of the light incident on it [90]. The photocurrent State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon  49 Table 1 Simulation-related parameters used for the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si/ n+-CdS or n+-In3Se4 heterojunction solar cells at 300 K Parameters n-Si [87] PEDOT:PSS [88] CdS [85] In3Se4 [89] Layer type Absorber Window BSF BSF Conductivity type N P N+ N+ aThickness [μm] 250 0.10 0.040.06 0.010.02 Bandgap, EG [eV] 1.12 1.6 2.4 1.8 Electron afﬁnity, χ [eV] 4.05 3.55 4.2 4.55 Dielectric permittivity, ε [relative] 11.9 2.58 10 5.54 Effective CB density, NC [cm3] 2.8  1019 2.1  1021 2.2  1018 1.0  1018 Effective VB density, NV [cm3] 1.04  1019 2.0  1021 1.8  1019 1.0  1018 Electron mobility, μn [cm2 V1 s1] 1350 1 100 100 Hole mobility, μp [cm2 V1 s1] 500 20 25 50 aDonor concentration, ND [cm3] 1017 0 1018 1021 aAcceptor concentration, NA [cm3] 0 3.0  1020 0 0 Defect type Acceptor Acceptor Acceptor Acceptor Energetic distribution Gaussian Gaussian Gaussian Gaussian aPeak defect density, N(t) [eV1 cm3] 0109 1014 1014 1014 Characteristic energy [eV] 0.01 0.1 0.1 0.1 Reference energy [eV] 0.56 0.8 1.2 0.9 Electron capture cross section for acceptor defect [cm2] 1017 1017 1017 1017 Hole capture cross section for acceptor defect [cm2] 1015 1015 1015 1015 Electron capture cross section for donor defect [cm2] 1015    Hole capture cross section for donor defect [cm2] 1017    aIs a variable ﬁeld. The numbers in the [] indicate the reference numbers of the solar cell can be further increased by minimizing this optical loss with anti- reﬂection coating for crystalline silicon solar cells. However, the refractive index and thickness of the PEDOT:PSS layer (being low refractive index of 1.6 and thickness of 80100 nm) create a problem in the ARC design. In recent work, a design guideline has been provided for the PEDO:PSS/n- Si heterojunction solar cells where the constraints due to PEDOT:PSS have been resolved for attaining lowest value of reﬂectance [90]. The reﬂectance loss over a broadband spectral wavelength for the PEDO:PSS/n- Si heterojunction solar cells can be minimized by materials with high refractive 50 J. Hossain et al. Fig. 11 a The schematic energy diagram of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si/(n+-CdS or n+-In3Se4 BSF) heterojunction solar cell and b the simulated JV curves of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si/ n+-CdS or n+-In3Se4 heterojunction solar cells (a) (b) Table 2 Built-in potentials for PEDOT:PSS/n-Si/ n+-CdS or n+-In3Se4 heterojunction solar cells measured by SCAPS 1D simulator Junctions Built-in potential 1 Vbi(PEDOT/Si) (V) Built-in potential 2 Vbi(n-Si/CdS or In3Se4) (V) Device built-in potential, Vbi (V) PEDOT/n-Si 0.88  0.88 PEDOT/n-Si/n+-CdS 0.88 0.15 1.03 PEDOT/n-Si/n+-In3Se4 0.88 0.20 1.08 indices (2.02.5) such as MoOx, anatase TiO2, SrTiO3, etc. prepared by solution process [22, 37, 90]. The double layer ARC coating can be effectively used for PEDO:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cells [90]. Figure 12a shows the schematic of DARCs layer design with materials having high refractive index for PEDOT:PSS/n- Si heterojunction solar cells. The corresponding reﬂectance spectra of the DARCs are depicted in Fig. 12b. The ﬁgure shows that the reﬂectance of the device can be reduced to 2% at 650 nm using λ/4-wavelength thickness for DARCs. The sandwich structure of high-indexed PEDOT:PSS of 80 nm thickness with a material of refractive index (RI) of 2.10 is used to design DARCs. W-shaped State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon  51 (a) (b) Fig. 12 a The schematic block diagram of DARC using materials with high refractive index and b the reﬂectance spectra of the DARCs with material having high refractive index and PEDOT:PSS on Si substrate reﬂectance spectra are observed for DARCs having thickness of λ/2, which reveals there are two wavelengths at which the reﬂectance is minimum. This provides a wide window of wavelength for minimization of reﬂectance [91]. The optimized condition for DARCs is achieved by staking a 63.8-nm-thick material having RI of 2.45 on 80-nm-thick PEDOT:PSS ﬁlm. Therefore, materials with refractive indices of 2.10 2.45 can be utilized for DARCs to attain the lower value of reﬂectance compared to that of the estimated value of PEDOT:PSS which can contribute to further increase in photocurrent which in turn increase the efﬁciency of the PEDO:PSS/n-Si solar cells. 6 Conclusions In summary, PEDOT:PSS becomes the most prominent p-type organic material for n-Si-based solar cell application because of its highly transparent and conducting nature. The carrier transport mechanism in PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cell devices has been investigated by using different Nd of Si substrate. To this aim, several char- acteristics of the corresponding samples were studied including CV and JV in dark, EQE under simulated light, and Schottky and pn junction model analysis with the two-diode model ﬁtting. The CV and EQE study reveals the very high built-in potential at the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si interface and with the presence of a strong inver- sion. The experimental results conﬁrm the formation of p+n junction with a strong inversion layer at the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si interface. The PCE of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cell has increased from 10 to 20% in last 9 years. Apart from this success of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si-based solar cell, the light soaking and air storage stability are great challenges. The solution-processed TAPC on the top of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cell can signiﬁcantly improve the stability of the devices. The simulation reveals that PCE of the devices can be further increased to 30.9435.05 % with a higher VOC of 0.89 V by using CdS or In3Se4 BSF layer. The short-circuit current of the 52 J. Hossain et al. solar cells can be further increased by the use of proper ARC layer on the top of the PEDOT:PSS/n-Si heterojunction solar cells. Acknowledgements The authors would like to thank their colleagues Q. Liu, K. Ishikawa, T. Ohki, S. Funada, K. Ichikawa, T. Kuroki, T. Miura, B. K. Mondal, and D. Harada for their efforts during this study. References 1. Andreani LC, Bozzola A, Kowalczewski P, Liscidini M, Redorici L (2019) Silicon solar cells: toward the efﬁciency limits. Adv Phys X 4:1548305 2. Battaglia C, Cuevas A, De Wolf S (2016) High-efﬁciency crystalline silicon solar cells: status and perspectives. Energy Environ Sci 9:15521576 3. Yoshikawa K, Kawasaki H, Yoshida W et al (2017) Silicon heterojunction solar cell with interdigitated back contacts for a photoconversion efﬁciency over 26%. Nat Energy 2:17032 4. Avasthi S, Lee S, Loo Y-L, Sturm JC (2011) Role of majority and minority carrier barriers silicon/organic hybrid heterojunction solar cells. Adv Mater 23:57625766 5. Liu Q, Ono M, Tang Z, Ishikawa R, Ueno K, Shirai H (2012) Highly efﬁcient crys- talline silicon/Zonyl ﬂuorosurfactant-treated organic heterojunction solar cells. Appl Phys Lett 100:183901 6. Liu Q, Imamura T, Hiate T, Khatri I, Tang Z, Ishikawa R, Ueno K, Shirai H (2013) Optical anisotropy in solvent-modiﬁed poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(styrenesulfonic acid) and its effect on the photovoltaic performance of crystalline silicon/organic heterojunction solar cells. Appl Phys Lett 102:243902 7. Devkota R, Liu Q, Ohki T, Hossain J, Ueno K, Shirai H (2016) Solution-processed crystalline silicon double-heterojunction solar cells. Appl Phys Express 9:22301 8. Zielke D, Pazidis A, Werner F, Schmidt J (2014) Organic-silicon heterojunction solar cells on n-type silicon wafers: the BackPEDOT concept. Sol Energy Mater Sol Cells 131:110116 9. Inganäs O (2011) Avoiding indium. Nat Photonics 5:201202 10. Søndergaard R, Hösel M, Angmo D, Larsen-Olsen TT, Krebs FC (2012) Roll-to-roll fabrication of polymer solar cells. Mater Today 15:3649 11. Han T-H, Lee Y, Choi M-R, Woo S-H, Bae S-H, Hong BH, Ahn J-H, Lee T-W (2012) Extremely efﬁcient ﬂexible organic light-emitting diodes with modiﬁed graphene anode. Nat Photonics 6:105110 12. Mengistie DA, Ibrahem MA, Wang P-C, Chu C-W (2014) Highly conductive PEDOT:PSS treated with formic acid for ITO-free polymer solar cells. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 6:2292 2299 13. Ouyang J (2013) Solution-Processed PEDOT:PSS Films with Conductivities as Indium Tin Oxide through a Treatment with Mild and Weak Organic Acids. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 5:1308213088 14. Mukherjee S, Singh R, Gopinathan S, Murugan S, Gawali S, Saha B, Biswas J, Lodha S, Kumar A (2014) Solution-processed poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene) thin ﬁlms as trans- parent conductors: effect of p-toluenesulfonic acid in dimethyl sulfoxide. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 6:1779217803 15. Pietsch M, Bashouti MY, Christiansen S (2013) The role of hole transport in hybrid inor- ganic/organic silicon/poly(3,4-ethylenedioxy-thiophene): poly(styrenesulfonate) heterojunc- tion solar cells. J Phys Chem C 117:90499055 16. Yin B, Liu Q, Yang L, Wu X, Liu Z, Hua Y, Yin S, Chen Y (2010) Buffer layer of PEDOT:PSS/graphene composite for polymer solar cells. J Nanosci Nanotechnol 10:1934 1938 State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon  53 17. Yoon S-S, Khang D-Y (2016) Roles of nonionic surfactant additives in PEDOT:PSS thin ﬁlms. J Phys Chem C 120:2952529532 18. Thomas JP, Leung KT (2014) Defect-minimized PEDOT:PSS/planar-Si solar cell with very high efﬁciency. Adv Funct Mater 24:49784985 19. He J, Gao P, Liao M, Yang X, Ying Z, Zhou S, Ye J, Cui Y (2015) Realization of 13.6% efﬁciency on 20 μm thick Si/organic hybrid heterojunction solar cells via advanced nanotexturing and surface recombination suppression. ACS Nano 9:65226531 20. Liu Q, Ishikawa R, Funada S, Ohki T, Ueno K, Shirai H (2015) Highly efﬁcient solution-processed poly(3,4-ethylenedio-xythiophene): poly(styrenesulfonate)/crystalline silicon heterojunction solar cells with improved light-induced stability. Adv Energy Mater 5:1500744 21. Hossain J, Liu Q, Miura T, Kasahara K, Harada D, Ishikawa R, Ueno K, Shirai H (2016) Naﬁon-modiﬁed PEDOT:PSS as a transparent hole-transporting layer for high-performance crystalline-Si/organic heterojunction solar cells with improved light soaking stability. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 8:3192631934 22. Funda S, Ohki T, Liu Q, Hossain J, Ishimaru Y, Ueno K, Shirai H (2016) Correlation between the ﬁne structure of spin-coated PEDOT:PSS and the photovoltaic performance of organic/crystalline-silicon heterojunction solar cells. J Appl Phys 120:033103 23. HeJ,GaoP,YangZ,YuJ,YuW,ZhangY,ShengJ,YeJ,AmineJC,CuiY(2017)Silicon/organic hybrid solar cells with 16.2% efﬁciency and improved stability by formation of conformal heterojunction coating and moisture-resistant capping layer. Adv Mater 29:1606321 24. Zielke D, Gogolin R, Halbich M-U, Marquardt C, Lövenich W, Sauer R, Schmidt J (2018) Large-area PEDOT:PSS/c-Si heterojunction solar cells with screen-printed metal contacts. Sol RRL 2:1700191 25. Kasahara K, Hossain J, Harada D, Ichikawa K, Ishikawa R, Shirai H (2018) Crystalline- Si heterojunction with organic thin-layer (HOT) solar cell module using poly(3,4- ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(styrene sulfonate)(PEDOT:PSS). Sol Energy Mater Sol Cells 181:6070 26. Miura T, Shirai H (2017) Spectroscopic ellipsometry study of PEDOT:PSS. Thesis of Graduate course, Saitama University, Japan 27. Price MJ, Foley JM, May RA, Maldonado S (2010) Comparison of majority carrier charge transfer velocities at Si/polymer and Si/metal photovoltaic heterojunctions. Appl Phys Lett 97:083503 28. Zhang Y, Cui W, Zhu Y, Zu F, Liao L, Lee ST, Sun B (2015) High efﬁciency hybrid PEDOT:PSS/nanostructured silicon Schottky junction solar cells by doping-free rear contact. Energy Environ Sci 8:297302 29. Jeong S, Garnett EC, Wang S, Yu Z, Fan S, Brongersma ML, McGehee MD, Cui Y (2012) Hybrid silicon nanocone-polymer solar cells. Nano Lett 12:29712976 30. Arici E, Sariciftci NS, Meissner D (2004) Hybrid solar cells. Encycl Nanosci Nanotechnol 3:929944 31. Lam C, Shi S, Lu J, Chan PKL (2016) Efﬁciency improvement in silicon nanowire/conductive polymer hybrid solar cells based on formic acid treatment. RSC Adv 6:8683686842 32. Pettersson LAA, Ghosh S, Inganäs O (2002) Optical anisotropy in thin ﬁlms of poly(3,4- ethylenedioxythiophene)poly(4-styrenesulfonate). Org Electron 3:143148 33. Saiful Islam ATM, Ishikawa R, Shirai H (2019) Solution-processed crystalline silicon hetero- junction solar cells. In: Advanced nanomaterials for solar cells and light emitting diodes. Elsevier Inc., pp 97117 34. Nagamatsu KA, Avasthi S, Jhaveri J, Sturm JC (2014) A 12% efﬁcient silicon/PEDOT:PSS heterojunction solar cell fabricated at 100 C. IEEE J Photovoltaics 4:260264 35. Xia Y, Sun K, Ouyang J (2012) Solution-processed metallic conducting polymer ﬁlms as transparent electrode of optoelectronic devices. Adv Mater 24:24362440 36. Pietsch M, Jäckle S, Christiansen S (2014) Interface investigation of planar hybrid n- Si/PEDOT:PSS solar cells with open circuit voltages up to 645 mV and efﬁciencies of 12.6 %. Appl Phys a Mater Sci Process 115:11091113 54 J. Hossain et al. 37. Hossain J, Ohki T, Ichikawa K, Fujiyama K, Ueno K, Fujii Y, Hanajiri T, Shirai H (2016) Investigating the chemical mist deposition technique for poly(3,4- ethylenedioxythiophene):poly(styrene sulfonate) on textured crystalline-silicon for organic/crystalline-silicon heterojunction solar cells. Jpn J Appl Phys 55:031601 38. Kim Y, Lee J, Kang H, Kim G, Kim N, Lee K (2012) Controlled electro-spray deposition of highly conductive PEDOT:PSS ﬁlms. Sol Energy Mater Sol Cells 98:3945 39. Xiong Z, Liu C (2012) Optimization of inkjet printed PEDOT:PSS thin ﬁlms through annealing processes. Org Electron 13:15321540 40. Tang Z, Liu Q, Khatri I, Ishikawa R, Ueno K, Shirai H (2012) Optical properties and carrier transport in c-Si/conductive PEDOT:PSS(GO) composite heterojunctions. Phys Status Solidi C 9:20752078 41. Liu R, Lee S-T, Sun B (2014) 13.8% efﬁciency hybrid Si/organic heterojunction solar cells with MoO3 ﬁlm as antireﬂection and inversion induced layer. Adv Mater 26:60076012 42. Subramani T, Syu H-J, Liu C-T, Hsueh C-C, Yang S-T, Lin C-F (2016) Low-pressure-assisted coating method to improve interface between PEDOT:PSS and silicon nanotips for high- efﬁciency organic/inorganic hybrid solar cells via solution process. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 8:24062415 43. Crowell CR, Sze SM (1966) Current transport in metal-semiconductor barriers. Solid State Electron 9:10351048 44. Jäckle S, Mattiza M, Liebhaber M, Brönstrup G, Rommel M, Lips K, Christiansen S (2015) Junction formation and current transport mechanisms in hybrid n-Si/PEDOT:PSS solar cells. Sci Rep 5:13008 45. He J, Gao P, Ling Z, Ding L, Yang Z, Ye J, Cui Y (2016) High-efﬁciency silicon/organic heterojunction solar cells with improved junction quality and interface passivation. ACS Nano 10:1152511531 46. Sze SM, Ng KK (2006) Physics of semiconductor devices, 3rd ed. https://doi.org/10.1002/047 0068329 47. Andrews JM, Lepselter MP (1970) Reverse current-voltage characteristics of metal-silicide Schottky diodes. Solid State Electron 13:10111023 48. Thurmond CD (1975) The standard thermodynamic functions for the formation of electrons and holes in Ge, Si, GaAs, and GaP. J Electrochem Soc 122:11331141 49. Madelung O (1996) Semiconductorsbasic data, 2nd ed. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642- 97675-9 50. Sah C, Noyce RN, Shockley W (1957) Carrier generation and recombination in P-N junctions and P-N junction characteristics. Proc IRE 45:12281243 51. Green MA, Keevers MJ (1995) Optical properties of intrinsic silicon at 300 K. Prog Photovoltaics Res Appl 3:189192 52. Sze SM, Crowell CR, Kahng D (1964) Photoelectric determination of the image force dielectric constant for hot electrons in Schottky barriers. J Appl Phys 35:25342536 53. Gerling LG, Masmitja G, Voz C, Ortega P, Puigdollers J, Alcubilla R (2016) Back junction n-type silicon heterojunction solar cells with V2O5 hole-selective contact. Energy Procedia 92:633637 54. Park S, Cho E, Song D, Conibeer G, Green MA (2009) n-Type silicon quantum dots and p-type crystalline silicon heteroface solar cells. Sol Energy Mater Sol Cells 93:684690 55. Huang J, Miller PF, Wilson JS, de Mello AJ, de Mello JC, Bradley DDC (2005) Investigation of the effects of doping and post-deposition treatments on the conductivity, morphology, and work function of poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene)/poly(styrene sulfonate) ﬁlms. Adv Funct Mater 15:290296 56. Hwang J, Amy F, Kahn A (2006) Spectroscopic study on sputtered PEDOTPSS: role of surface PSS layer. Org Electron 7:387396 57. Koch N, Vollmer A, Elschner A (2007) Inﬂuence of water on the work function of conducting poly(3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene)/poly(styrenesulfonate). Appl Phys Lett 90:043512 58. Bubnova O, Khan ZU, Wang H et al (2013) Semi-metallic polymers. Nat Mater 13:190194 State-of-the-Art of Solution-Processed Crystalline Silicon  55 59. Yun DJ, Ra H, Kim J, Hwang I, Lee J, Rhee SW, Chung J (2012) Characterizing annealing effect of poly (3,4-ethylenedioxythiophene) polymerized with poly (4-styrenesulfonate) conjugated ﬁlm on the molecular arrangement andwork function by core-level and valence-level band spectra. ECS J Solid State Sci Technol 1:M10M14 60. Hossain J, Kasahara K, Harada D et al (2017) Barium hydroxide hole blocking layer for front- and back-organic/crystalline Si heterojunction solar cells. J Appl Phys 122:55101 61. Ohki T, Ichikawa K, Hossain J, Fujii Y, Hanajiri T, Ishikawa R, Ueno K, Shirai H (2016) Effect of substrate bias on mist deposition of conjugated polymer on textured crystalline-Si for efﬁcient c-Si/organic heterojunction solar cells. Phys Status Solidi a 213:19221925 62. Jiang X, Wang Z, Han W et al (2017) High performance siliconorganic hybrid solar cells via improving conductivity of PEDOT:PSS with reduced graphene oxide. Appl Surf Sci 407:398 404 63. Li Q, Chen S, Yang J, Zou J, Xie W, Zeng X (2018) High performance silicon/organic hybrid solar cells with dual localized surface plasmonic effects of Ag and Au nanoparticles. Sol RRL 2:1800028 64. Ge Z, Xu L, Cao Y, Wu T, Song H, Ma Z, Xu J, Chen K (2015) Substantial improvement of short wavelength response in n-SiNW/PEDOT:PSS solar cell. Nanoscale Res Lett 10:330 65. Yang C, Sun Z, He Y, Xiong B, Chen S, Li M, Zhou Y, Zheng Y, Sun K (2019) Performance- enhancing approaches for the PEDOT:PSS-Si hybrid solar cells. Angew Chemie Int Ed. https:// doi.org/10.1002/anie.201910629 66. Yoon S-S, Khang D-Y (2018) High efﬁciency (17%) Si-organic hybrid solar cells by simul- taneous structural, electrical, and interfacial engineering via low-temperature processes. Adv Energy Mater 8:1702655 67. Shen X, Sun B, Liu D, Lee S-T (2011) Hybrid heterojunction solar cell based on organic- inorganic silicon nanowire array architecture. J Am Chem Soc 133:1940819415 68. He L, Jiang C, Wang H, Lai D, Rusli (2012) High efﬁciency planar Si/organic heterojunction hybrid solar cells. Appl Phys Lett 100:073503 69. Schmidt J, Titova V, Zielke D (2013) Organic-silicon heterojunction solar cells: open-circuit voltage potential and stability. Appl Phys Lett 103:183901 70. Zhang X, Yang D, Yang Z, Guo X, Liu B, Ren X, Liu S (Frank) (2016) Improved PEDOT:PSS/c- Si hybrid solar cell using inverted structure and effective passivation. Sci Rep 6:35091 71. Jäckle S, Liebhaber M, Gersmann C, Mews M, Jäger K, Christiansen S, Lips K (2017) Potential of PEDOT:PSS as a hole selective front contact for silicon heterojunction solar cells. Sci Rep 7:2170 72. Gogolin R, Zielke D, Descoeudres A, Despeisse M, Ballif C, Schmidt J (2017) Demonstrating the high Voc potential of PEDOT:PSS/c-Si heterojunctions on solar cells. Energy Procedia 124:593597 73. Islam ATMS, Karim ME, Rajib A et al (2019) Chemical mist deposition of organic for efﬁ- cient front- and back-PEDOT:PSS/crystalline Si heterojunction solar cells. Appl Phys Lett 114:193901 74. Madogni VI, Kounouhéwa B, Akpo A, Agbomahéna M, Hounkpatin SA, Awanou CN (2015) Comparison of degradation mechanisms in organic photovoltaic devices upon exposure to a temperate and a subequatorial climate. Chem Phys Lett 640:201214 75. Schmidt J, Zielke D, Lövenich W, Hörteis M, Elschner A (2014) Organic-silicon heterojunc- tions: a promising new concept for high-efﬁciency solar cells. In: 6th world conference on photovoltaic energy conversion, Kyoto, Japan, pp 869870 76. El Radaf IM, Al-Kotb MS, Nasr M, Yahia IS (2019) Fabrication and electrical characterization of the InSbS3/n-Si heterojunction. J Alloys Compd 788:206211 77. Hao L, Xu H, Dong S, Du Y, Luo L, Zhang C, Liu H, Wu Y, Liu Y (2019) SnSe/SiO2/Si heterostructures for ultrahigh-sensitivity and broadband optical position sensitive detectors. IEEE Electron Device Lett 40:5558 78. Abd El-Rahman KF, Darwish AAA, El-Shazly EAA (2014) Electrical and photovoltaic properties of SnSe/Si heterojunction. Mater Sci Semicond Process 25:123129 56 J. Hossain et al. 79. Cai L, Wang W, Jin L, et al (2019) 12.29% Low TemperatureProcessed Dopant-Free CdS/p-Si Heterojunction Solar Cells. Adv Mater Interfaces 6:1900367 80. Lin Z, He Q, Yin A, Xu Y, Wang C, Ding M, Cheng H-C, Papandrea B, Huang Y, Duan X (2015) Cosolvent approach for solution-processable electronic thin ﬁlms. ACS Nano 9:43984405 81. Webber DH, Brutchey RL (2013) Alkahest for V2VI3 chalcogenides: dissolution of nine bulk semiconductors in a diamine-dithiol solvent mixture. J Am Chem Soc 135:1572215725 82. Rahman MF, Hossain J, Kuddus A, Tabassum S, Rubel MHK, Shirai H, ABMI (2020) A novel synthesis and characterization of transparent CdS thin ﬁlms for CdTe/CdS solar cells. Appl Phys A Mater Sci Process 126:145 83. Burgelman M, Verschraegen J, Degrave S, Nollet P (2004) Modeling thin-ﬁlm PV devices. Prog Photovoltaics Res Appl 12:143153 84. Kuddus A, Rahman MF, Ahmmed S, Hossain J, Ismail ABM (2019) Role of facile synthesized V2O5 as hole transport layer for CdS/CdTe heterojunction solar cell: validation of simulation using experimental data. Superlattices Microstruct 132:106168 85. Moon MMA, Ali MH, Rahman MF, Hossain J, Ismail ABMI (2020) Design and simulation of FeSi2 based novel heterojunction solar cells for harnessing visible and near-infrared light. Phys Status Solidi A 217:1900921 86. Mondal BK, Mostaque SK, Rashid MA, Kuddus A, Shirai H, Hossain J (2021) Effect of CdS and In3Se4 BSF layers on the photovoltaic performance of PEDOT:PSS/n-Si solar cells: simulation based on experimental data. Superlattices Microstruct 152:106853 87. Mondal BK, Newaz MA, Rashid MA, Hossain KM, Mostaque SK, Rahman MF, Rubel MHK, Hossain J (2019) Electronic structure of In3xSe4 electron transport layer for chalcogenide/p-Si heterojunction solar cells. ACS Omega 4:1776217772 88. Prakoso AB, Rusli LZ, Lu C, Jiang C (2018) Design guideline for Si/organic hybrid solar cell with interdigitated back contact structure. Semicond Sci Technol 33:35016 89. Hossain J, Julkarnain M, Mondal BK, Newaz MA, Khan KA (2019) Unveiling the electrical and thermoelectric properties of highly degenerate indium selenide thin ﬁlms: indication of In3Se4 phase. Mater Res Express 6:126421 90. Hossain J, Mondal BK, Mostaque SK, Ahmed SR Al, Shirai H (2019) Optimization of multi- layer anti-reﬂection coatings for efﬁcient light management of PEDOT:PSS/c-Si heterojunction solar cells. Mater Res Express 7:015502 91. Sharma R, Gupta A, Virdi A (2017) Effect of single and double layer antireﬂection coating to enhance photovoltaic efﬁciency of silicon solar. J Nano- Electron Phys 9:02001 Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties of Organic Photovoltaics from Density Functional Theory Methods Juan I. Rodríguez and Andreas W. Götz Abstract Organic photovoltaic (OPV) cells have attracted considerable attention as renewable energy source with potential for large scale deployment. Among the most efﬁcient OPVs are so-called bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) cells in which the active material consists of an electron donor and electron acceptor material. In this chapter we review how density functional theory (DFT) methods can be employed to char- acterize interfacial properties, UV-Vis absoprtion spectra, and photoinduced charge separation in BHJ-OPV donor-acceptor complexes based on semiconducting poly- mers as donor and fullerene derivatives as acceptor. The methods presented here are transferable also to other donor acceptor materials. 1 Introduction In the context of mankinds impressive scientiﬁc and technological achievements it is surprising, and unfortunate, that worldwide energy consumption still relies to about 80% on non-renewable fossil fuels [1]. Besides being a limited resource, petroleum extraction and hydrocarbon combustion have serious negative impacts on our envi- ronment and health, for example through pollution of air/soil/water and global warm- ing. The search for alternative, cost-effective, clean and renewable energy sources is thus of paramount importance for our society. Photovoltaic (or solar) cells have represented a clean, renewable energy source for about 60 years. However, due to their high cost, their relatively low efﬁciency, and the requirement of large ﬂat areas for solar exposure, this technology is currently not used at a massive scale [2]. J. I. Rodríguez Escuela Superior de Física y Matemáticas, Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Ediﬁcio 9, U.P. A.L.M., Col. San Pedro Zacatenco, C.P. 07738 Ciudad de México, Mexico e-mail: jirodriguezh@ipn.mx A. W. Götz (B) San Diego Supercomputer Center, University of California San Diego, 9500 Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093-0505, USA e-mail: agoetz@sdsc.edu  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021 J. K. Roy et al. (eds.), Development of Solar Cells, Challenges and Advances in Computational Chemistry and Physics 32, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-69445-6_3 57 58 J. I. Rodríguez and A. W. Götz Organic or plastic photovoltaic (OPV) cells have attracted considerable attention for a variety of reasons. In addition to being a renewable and non-polluting energy source, they are potentially inexpensive, made of ﬂexible material, and by modulat- ing the absorption spectrum they can even be manufactured as transparent devices [3, 4]. OPV cells thus have the potential to be applied in large scale for example on surfaces of buildings, cars, or asphalt roads, converting sunlight into electricity where it is consumed [35]. Historically, the main drawback limiting the proliferation of OPVs has been their low power conversion efﬁciency η which ranged from 2 to 8%. Among the most efﬁcient (η = 6 to 8%) OPVs are the so-called bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) cells in which the active layer is composed of a mixture of an electron donor (typically a semiconducting polymer) and an electron acceptor (typically a fullerene derivative). Very recently, however, a new generation of BHJ-OPV has been pro- duced where the fullerene is replaced by an acceptor polymer. Surprisingly these OPVs have reached efﬁciencies exceeding 13% [69]. These fullerene-free BHJ- OPVs represent a landmark since it was estimated that exceeding a 10%-threshold for the power conversion efﬁciency η would catapult OPVs into the commercial ambit [2]. Whether fullerene-based or fullerene-free, it is well established that the BHJ solar cell efﬁciency depends on the type and relative concentration of the elec- tron donor-acceptor pair and the condensed phase morphology. Together with the operating temperature, these factors control the exciton formation and dissociation upon irradiation and the charge mobility at the donor/acceptor interface [4, 10, 11]. Unfortunately, our understanding of the interactions between the electron donor and the acceptor at the molecular level is incomplete, thus considerably hampering a rational optimization of BHJ cell materials and efﬁciency. Experiments on the active layer of some fullerene-based BHJ-OPV have shown that, depending on the relative composition, amorphous or non-crystalline domains form at the donor/acceptor interface [12]. This means that the structure formation at the donor/acceptor interface is more complex than previously assumed and simple models are not appropriate. The experiments to determine the structure of noncrys- talline domains are non-trivial and it is not always possible to obtain meaningful results due to the high resolution that is required (0.21 nm). It is thus clear that a full bottom-up computational approach is desirable to investigate properties of BHJ- OPV materials. Such an approach has to take into account realistic structures in the active layer of the BHJ solar cell before computing any electronic properties and interactions of the individual donor/acceptor molecules that make up the material. Computer simulations that aim at understanding donor/acceptor interactions in BHJ cells have been documented in the literature for a decade. These studies conﬁrm that the rates of exciton formation and dissociation, which are related to the solar cell efﬁciency, depend strongly on the local molecular structure of donor/acceptor pairs [13, 14]. However, these early works made assumptions about the donor/acceptor structure and employed approximate theoretical models and reduced-size molecular model systems to keep the computational cost manageable, thus neglecting important environmental effects. While this is common practice and often justiﬁable, unfor- tunately, sometimes this drastically reduces the predictive power of the computer simulations. Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties  59 Fig. 1 Diagrams of a poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) and b [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) In this chapter we demonstrate how state-of-the-art density functional theory (DFT) and time-dependent DFT (TDDFT) based methodologies can be used to prop- erly predict structural, optical and charge transfer properties in BHJ-OPVs. For this purpose we will focus on a speciﬁc BHJ-OPV material whose active layer consists of a mixture of the polymer poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) as electron donor and the fullerene-derivative [6,6]-phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM) as electron acceptor (Fig.1). Although the results reported here were obtained for the case of P3HT/PCBM OPV donor/acceptor pairs, the general techniques can be transfered. In addition, some trends that are reported here can be found in other BHJ-OPV systems, whether fullerene-based or fullerene-free, due to the similarities in the nature of the donor-acceptor materials in the active layer. Particularly, we will show that it is of paramount importance to model realistic structures for the amorphous-like donor-acceptor interface in order to improve pre- dictionsofelectronicpropertiesinBHJ-OPVs[1518].Becauseinteractionsbetween donor and acceptor molecules are dominated by dispersion forces, it is necessary to include such interactions in the theoretical model. By using appropriate DFT based methods with van der Waals corrections, we are then able to quantitatively repro- duce experimental data on optical and charge separation (CS) properties of OPVs, signiﬁcantly improving upon previous theoretical studies [17, 18]. This chapter is organized as follows: Sect.2 contains a brief literature review of experimental and theoretical data for the P3HT/PCBM OPV system. The theoretical model employed in our studies of P3HT/PCBM is introduced in Sect.3 along with a description of how realistic structures of the P3HT/PCBM interface can be obtained with DFT. The nature of the intermolecular interactions between PCBM and P3HT is analyzed using Baders quantum theory of atoms and molecules (QTAIM) in Sect.4. Optical and CS properties are discussed in Sects.5 and 6, respectively. Our conclusions are cast in Sect.7. 60 J. I. Rodríguez and A. W. Götz 2 The P3HT/PCBM OPV The P3HT/PCBM OPV system is perhaps the most studied BHJ-OPV system, both experimentally and theoretically. The reason is because it was among the ﬁrst OPVs that reached the 5%-threshold power conversion efﬁciency η [11, 19] in combina- tion with its high internal quantum efﬁciency (0.8) [20]. This is partially due to the excellent electron acceptor capability [21, 22] and small inner-sphere reorganiza- tion energy of PCBM [23, 24]. Besides these molecular properties it is well estab- lished that factors in the preparation of OPV cells have an impact on solar energy conversion efﬁciency, including morphology, relative donor-acceptor concentration, thickness of the active layer and the resulting charge separation and recombination [10, 11, 13]. Although a detailed picture of the P3HT/PCBM interface at the molecular level is still missing, there have been many experimental measurements and theoretical stud- ies. Using grazing-incidence-X-ray diffraction (GIXRD) Kohn et al. [12] obtained an overall picture of the P3HT/PCBM blend, which is shown in Fig.2. For a pure P3HT active layer, the P3HT chains form stacking laminar crystalline domains (Fig.2a). When PCBM is added at low relative concentration to form a mixture with P3HT, the PCBM molecules start gathering in the intertitial space between the P3HT crystal domains (Fig.2b, c); ﬁnally, at higher PCBM concentration, the PCBM molecules start to form crystal domains between the P3HT domain, leading to amorphous zones attheP3HT/PCBMinterface[12].UsingTransmisionElectronMicroscopy(TEM) on the P3HT/PCBM blend, Yang et al. reported a nanocrystal structure for PCBM and polycrystal domains for P3HT. However, they also reported amorphous domains at the P3HT-PCBM interphase [25]. On the other hand, Shrotriya et al. reported that upon addition of increasing amounts of PCBM to P3HT the main UV-Vis absorption peak is increasingly blue-shifted along with a depletion of the absorption intensity (see Fig.3) [26]. Shrotriya et al. concluded that these two features, blue-shift and intensity depletion, are mainly due to two factors: the deformation of the P3HT chains in the presence of PCBM and a small non-photoinduced charge transfer between PCBM and P3HT [26]. Interestingly, mixing regio-regular and regio-random P3HT Fig. 2 PCBM/P3HT active layer morphology. Orange dots represent PCBM molecules and black lines represent P3HT polymer chains. Reprinted with permission from Ref. [12] (Kohn et al. Macro- molecules 2013, 46, 40024013). Copyright (2013) American Chemical Society Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties  61 Fig. 3 Absorption spectra of the P3HT/PCBM blend active layer for various relative concentration of PCBM in weight percentage (wt%) and pure P3HT in solution and as a ﬁlm. Reproduced from Ref. [29], Copyright (2005), with permission from Elsevier chains (without involvement of any PCBM) at different concentrations has a very similar effect on the optical spectra [27]. Therefore, it can be concluded that defor- mation of the P3HT chains is likely the main cause for the blueshift of the absorption peak and the intensity depletion in the UV-Vis spectrum. Deformation of the P3HT chains also impacts the OPV efﬁciency. Kim et al. also performed GIXRD exper- iments reporting that the P3HT-PCBM OPV efﬁciency depends on the degree of regio-regularity of the P3HT chains. The more regio-regular the polymer, the higher the OPV efﬁciency [27]. An important quantity that can be measured experimentally and that is directly related to the OPV efﬁciency η is the charge separation (CS) rate constant (kCS), η kCS. (1) Using ultrafast optical pump-probe spectroscopy, Piris et al. determined that kexp CS  4  1012 s1 for an OPV material with active layer blend consisting of P3HT and PCBM [28]. This value has been also reported by others. There have been plenty of theoretical studies on the P3HT-PCBM OPV. Because PCBM and realistic models of P3HT are relatively large in terms of numbers of atoms, it is quite challenging to employ ab-initio techniques. Thus several theoreti- cal works have used semiempirical methods and/or considered oversimpliﬁed model systems. As in many other ﬁelds, DFT methods have been successfully exploited for computational modeling of OPVs due to their favorable tradeoff between accu- racy and computational efﬁciency. A pioneering DFT work employing the PBE [30] generalized gradient approximation (GGA) exchange-correlation (xc) functional in combination with pseudopotentials was performed by Kanai and Grossman to model the P3HT-PCBM interface [31]. These authors considered a four-unit P3HT oligomer and a C60 bucky fullerene (as a simpliﬁed model of PCBM), placed at each site of 62 J. I. Rodríguez and A. W. Götz an orthorombic lattice. They reported at least two stable structures of the periodic system. The relative position of P3HT and C60 in these stable structures was in good agreement with the experimental data obtained via nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) techniques. They also obvserved a charge transfer between P3HT and C60 of approximately 0.1 electrons. However, it is important to note that the model system by Kanai and Grossman is not able to reproduce the amorphous domains at the P3HT- PCBM interface that have been reported by the experimentalists because structure periodicity is inherent in their model. A more realistic model would be considering groups of polymer chains interacting with groups of PCBM in free space, in a sol- vent, or in bulk condensed phase systems without periodic boundaries, or in which a periodic simulation box is sufﬁciently large to accomodate amorphous regions. However, a DFT study of such a system is not feasible with computational resources that will be available in the near or perhaps even more distant future. Thus one has to (i) consider simple model systems or (ii) turn to more approximate but computa- tonally efﬁcient semiempirical methodologies. Examples of both research directions are surveyed in the following. The simplest possible model system is a dimer con- sisting of only one polymer P3HT chain (donor) and one PCBM fullerene derivative (acceptor). So far several DFT studies have considered such a model system in order to mimic the P3HT/PCBM interface (vide infra). Liu and Troisi performed DFT and time dependent DFT (TDDFT) calculations within the Marcus-Jortner theory to compute the rate constant of charge separation (kCS) and recombination (kCR) of a dimer formed by a 6-unit P3HT oligomer model and one PCBM molecule [32]. In order to further reduce computational cost, they replaced the hexyl side chains of the P3HT hexamer by methyl groups, arguing that these alkyl chains do not affect the optical properties of the system [32]. The geometry optimizations were performed using the B3LYP xc functional and a Gaussian 6-31G* basis set, which was then followed by TDDFT calculations. Liu and Troisi reported a value of kTroisi CS = 1.51  1011 s1, which is at least one order of magnitude lower than the experimental value (kexp CS  4  1012 s1). It is worth mentioning that Liu and Troisi reported that kCS depends strongly on the structure of the P3HT-PCBM dimer. In order to consider more realistic dimer structures for the CS (CR) calculations, Troisi and coworkers performed molecular dynamics (MD) simulations on a system formed by 160 molecules of PCBM interacting with a 4-layer crystal domain of 20-unit P3HT oligomers [32]. In these simulations, each layer was formed by eight P3HT oligomers. They considered snapshots of P3HT/PCBM dimers from the MD trajectories to obtain geometries to be used in the DFT calculations. Troisi and coworkers concluded that kCS and kCR can vary orders of magnitude depending on the dimer structure (7.7  109 s1  kCS  1.8  1012 s1) [32]. There is strong experimental evidence, and it is also clear from a theoretical per- spective, that dispersion forces are an important component in intermolecular inter- actions. In particular for weakly interacting systems including aromatic molecules or fullerenes, a proper inclusion of van der Waals (vdW) interactions in the Hamiltonian is indispensable for an accurate description of interaction energies, intermolecular forces, and hence structures of supramolecular systems [3337]. Surprisingly almost Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties  63 none of the DFT/TDDFT studies that report CS and CR rates for the P3HT/PCBM OPV included vdW interactions to obtain the structure of the P3HT/PCBM interface. An exception is our recent work in which we report that dispersion forces can have drastic effects on structural, and in consequence electronic, optical and CS properties in OPVs [1518]. In particular the charge separation rate constant kCS that was computed in our work reached, to the best of our knowledge for the ﬁrst time, the experimental range as a result of properly taking into account vdW interactions in the theoretical model. It is worth mentioning that other recent DFT based studies also started to consider vdW interactions [38]. In the following sections our computational approach and results are described in more detail. 3 Structure of the P3HT/PCBM Interface 3.1 The Model System Similar to previous works, we decided to model the P3HT-PCBM interface consider- ing a single dimer composed of one PCBM acceptor molecule and an 8-unit oligomer of P3HT as donor (see Fig.4). The length of the oligomer had already been discussed in a previous work by Liu and Troisi, who concluded that a six-unit oligomer was sufﬁciently long to describe CT reactions between P3HT and PCBM [39]. Different oligomer sizes have been considered in the literature [31, 3840]. The conjugation length of polythiophene was experimentally evaluated between 6 and 12 thiophene rings [39, 41]. In our studies, a P3HT oligomer with 8 units was chosen as the largest oligomer to model the P3HT chains, which is sufﬁciently large to converge elec- tronic properties and sufﬁciently small to keep calculations of P3HT-PCBM dimers computationally feasible within the DFT framework [1518]. Fig. 4 Dimer formed by a PCBM molecule and an 8-unit oligomer of P3HT. This dimer is a simpliﬁed model system for the P3HT/PCBM active layer interface 64 J. I. Rodríguez and A. W. Götz 3.2 Computational Details All our results presented in this chapter were performed with the Amsterdam Density Functional (ADF) package [4244]. Different versions of ADF have been used since the results presented here were obtained over the course of several years. The speciﬁc version and a detailed list of ADF settings used to compute a speciﬁc property can be found below and in the corresponding original work that is cited throughout this chapter. All geometry optimizations were carried out using the Perdew-Burke-Ernzerhof (PBE) GGA xc functional [30] along with an all-electron uncontracted set of Slater- type orbitals (STOs) of triple-ζ quality (TZP) containing one set of polarization and diffuse functions [45]. The ADF integration parameter was set to 6 in order to ensure good numerical accuracy for the numerical quadrature. Unless otherwise explicitly stated, ADF default settings were used for the SCF procedure, geometry optimiza- tions and property calculations. The Grimme dispersion correction scheme DFT-D3 was employed in order to take vdW interactions into account. In this approach, the C6 dispersion coefﬁcient is parameterized for each pair of atom types (elements) for the hydrates of each element based on ab-initio reference calculations using the Casimir-Polder formula. The C8 coefﬁcients are obtained recursively from C6, while cutoff radii and damping function parameters are obtained empirically for each xc potential [46]. The geometries were fully optimized at the all-electron PBE-D3/TZP level of theory considering a convergence threshold for the energy gradients with respect to the nuclear coordinates equal to 104 Hartree/Angstrom. The TDDFT calculations were carried out with the PBE GGA xc functional, the B3LYP [47, 48] global hybrid xc functional, and two different range-separated hybrid xc functionals, CAMY-B3LYP [49, 50] and ωB97X [51]. It is well known that GGA xc functionals in particular but also global hybrid xc functionals fail to correctly describe excitations with charge-transfer character. Range-separated xc functionals overcome this problem and benchmarks have shown that in particular ωB97X per- forms very well for different types of excitations with or without charge-transfer character [52, 53]. Because of the high computational cost for range-separated xc functionals, the simpliﬁed TDDFT approach by Grimme [54] (sTDDFT) was used with the ωB97X functional, after carefully checking that sTDDFT gives effectively the same spectra as a full TDDFT calculation. The B3LYP and ωB97X calculations were performed with a Becke integration grid [55] of ADF quality setting good in order to guarantee numerically accurate solutions of the TDDFT equations. The libxc library [56] was employed with ADF for TDDFT calculations with range-separated hybrid functionals. The convergence of spectra computed with TDDFT was carefully checked with respect to the number of allowed singlet-singlet transitions that were computed. To plot the absorption spectra, the absorption peaks were broadened using Gaussian functions with a half-width of 0.2eV. AllQTAIMcalculationswereperformedbyusingourhighperformancemethodas implemented in ADF, which allows one to apply QTAIM to large systems containing hundreds of atoms [5760]. Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties  65 3.3 The PES of the P3HT/PCBM Dimer An exhaustive exploration of the Born-Oppenheimer potential energy surface (PES) of the P3HT/PCBM dimer at the DFT level of theory is out of reach with current computational resources. A valid approach would be to use less computationally demanding but more approximate methods to explore the dimer PES, for instance through the application of classical force ﬁelds, which would enable sampling via MD simulations. Instead of resorting to empirical potentials we decided, as a ﬁrst approximation, to partially explore the PES by performing DFT based geometry optimizations starting from a family of over 10 different initial nuclear geometries of the P3HT/PCBM dimer [15]. The optimized structures of the isolated molecules (8-unit P3HT oligomer and PCBM) were used to construct the starting geometries for the dimer optimizations while changing the relative position of P3HT and PCBM but restraining the closest intermolecular distance in the range of 35Å. Two distinct P3HT/PCBM starting structures are shown in Figure5a along with the resulting stable local isomers that were obtained from geometry optimizations, see Fig.5b, c. A relevant structural feature of the stable P3HT/PCBM dimers is that, driven by dispersion forces, the P3HT oligomer embraces the PCBM bucky ball, thus adopting a bent (U-shape) conformation as can be seen in Fig.5b, c. In addition to the curvature along the backbone, adjacent thiophene rings are also rotated with respect to each other, with S-C-C-S dihedral angles of approximately 15. Figure6 contains a visu- alization of the dihedral angles between adjacent thiophene rings for the optimized dimers P3HT-I1 and P3HT-I2. The relative rotations of the thophene rings follow an alternating clockwise and anticlockwise pattern. The reason for this deformation is Fig. 5 Two stable isomers for the P3HT/PCBM dimer formed by an 8-unit P3HT oligomer and one PCBM molecule. First row refers to the lowest-energy isomer (I1); second row to the next higher energy isomer (I2). a Initial geometries used in the geometry optimization procedure; b optimized geometries; c optimized geometries without P3HT alkyl side chains and hydrogen atoms. The energy difference between the two isomers is 3.126 eV. Reproduced from Ref. [15], Copyright (2014), with permission from Elsevier 66 J. I. Rodríguez and A. W. Götz Fig. 6 P3HT chain in a isomer I1 and b isomer I2. The dihedral angles (Di) between adjacent thiophene rings are explicitly shown. Reproduced from Ref. [16], Copyright (2016), with permission from Elsevier that it minimizes the distance between the P3HT and the bucky ball thus maximizing the interaction energy that is dominated by dispersion forces. The adjacent thiophene rings of the P3HT oligomer backbone are in general in trans-position with respect to the CC bond that connects two thiophene rings. However, this symmetry can be easily broken by complete rotation around the connecting bond. This is the case for dimer P3HT-I2, where thiophene ring R7 is in a cis position with respect to thiophene ring R6. This is in contrast to oligomer P3HT-I1 where all thiophene rings are in the more favorable trans conﬁguration [15]. The minimum distance between the P3HT and PCBM in the stable isomers I1 (the lowest-energy isomer) and I2 is equal to 2.08Å and 2.27Å, respectively [15]. This is in the range of typical ππ interactions. Another interesting feature of these isomers is that the P3HT alkyl side chains are also wrapped around the PCBM. In fact, it has been reported that these alkyl chains help to anchor the P3HT onto the PCBM. Of course there are no covalent bonds formed between P3HT and PCBM but rather weak dispersion forces, which, however, in sum lead to a considerable interaction energy. These facts are corroborated by an analysis with Baders quantum theory of atoms in molecules (QTAIM), which is introduced in the next section of this chapter. In order to demonstrate the impact of the vdW interactions on the structure of the P3HT/PCBM isomers, complementary geometry optimizations were performed without considering the vdW Grimme correction (using PBE instead of PBE-D3 approximation) [15]. Geometry optimizations with PBE did not lead to bound dimers, and depending on the initial starting geometry, interactions can actually be repulsive without addition of dispersion corrections. Thus, we can conclude that the distortion of both the P3HT backbone and the alkyl side chains towards PCBM are a result of Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties  67 dispersion forces, which, in turn, lead to stable P3HT/PCBM dimers in the ﬁrst place [15, 16]. Other computational studies report stable P3HT/PCBM dimers obtained with the B3LYP xc functional without dispersion correction. However, in this case the P3HT chain remains completely unperturbed and planar also in the P3HT/PCBM dimers [39], indicating that the minima are very shallow, underestimating the inter- action between P3HT and PCBM. In the following sections of this chapter, we will show that these structural distor- tions of P3HT due to dispersion forces between P3HT and PCBM in the P3HT/PCBM dimer are the source for the experimentally observed changes in optical properties. They also form the basis for a computational prediction of charge separation prop- erties that closely match the experimental data. 4 QTAIM Properties The quantum theory of atoms in molecules (QTAIM) provides a topological descrip- tion of a molecule by using the electron density to deﬁne atoms in real space [6163]. Atoms are partitioned by the so-called zero-ﬂux surfaces and atomic properties can be computed by integrating a property density over the atomic volumes enclosed by the zero-ﬂux surfaces. Using this approach, it is possible to uniquely determine partial charges of individual atoms or molecular fragments. The total charge (in a.u.) of the P3HT and PCBM molecules within the two most stable dimer isomers I1 and I2 take on the following values according to the distribution of QTAIM atomic charges: qP3HT I1 = 0.094 and qPCBM I1 = 0.098; and qP3HT I2 = 0.010 and qPCBM I2 = 0.008. These values do not exactly add up to zero due to the numerical method employed. In any case, they clearly indicate a charge transfer between P3HT and PCBM, particularly in Isomer 1, which is in agreement with the reported experimental non-photoinduced charge transfer [15, 16]. As shown in the last section, the dispersion interactions are responsible for sta- bilizing the dimers. Are there alternative ways to quantify these interactions? In addition to atomic properties, Baders QTAIM method allows one to explore the nature of the chemical bond and quantitatively analyze how many chemical bonds, of any type, exist in the system. According to QTAIM, a chemical bond in a molecule is predicted by the existence of a bond critical point (BCP) between two atoms and, as a complementary information, its corresponding bond path (BP). Figure7 shows the so-called molecular graph for the dimer isomer I1, which was obtained from a QTAIM calculation at the optimized geometry. It displays all 385 chemical bonds in the dimer I1 predicted by the electron density BCPs (green dots). Out of these 385 bonds, 37 are intermolecular bonds, that is, bonds formed by one atom in P3HT and the other in PCBM [16]. The remaining 348 bonds correspond to covalent bonds formed in each monomer (P3HT or PCBM), which are well classiﬁed in the literature as typical covalent bonds in organic molecules [61, 63]. Thus we here focus only on the 37 intermolecular bonds whose bond information is listed in Tables1 and 2. 68 J. I. Rodríguez and A. W. Götz Fig. 7 Molecular graph of the P3HT/PCBM isomer. Red, green, light blue and light gray dots are bond (BCP), ring (RCP), cage (CCP) and nuclear critical points (NCP) of the electron density. Bond paths are colored according to the density value: from dark-blue/high to yellow/low Table 1 Minimum, maximum and mean values (in a.u.) of the electron density (ρ) and its Laplacian (2ρ) at each type of intermolecular BCP. Bond length values (d, in Å) are also shown. The last row shows the global value of each quantity over the total BCPs of each type. Reproduced from Ref. [16], Copyright (2016), with permission from Elsevier Bond type ρ L d Min Max Mean Min Max Mean Min Max Mean Isomer I1 H   X 0.0035 0.0107 0.0065 0.011 0.032 0.02 2.5 3.21 2.81 H   H 0.0024 0.01 0.0069 0.007 0.037 0.023 2.09 2.75 2.3 Stacking 0.0076 0.0117 0.009 0.023 0.033 0.027 3.01 3.47 3.24 Total global 0.0024 0.0117 0.0074 0.007 0.037 0.024 2.09 3.47 2.79 Isomer I2 H   X 0.0025 0.0103 0.0046 0.008 0.039 0.015 2.36 3.34 3.01 H   H 0.0028 0.0063 0.0041 0.01 0.021 0.013 2.27 2.72 2.5 Stacking 0.0035 0.0075 0.0054 0.013 0.022 0.016 3.47 3.8 3.6 Total global 0.0025 0.0103 0.0047 0.008 0.039 0.015 2.27 3.8 3.03 Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties  69 Table 2 Number of different types of intermolecular BCPs between atoms of different chemical groups: P3HT-C6H13 side chains (SC), the P3HT backbone (BB), the C60 in PCBM (C60), and the functional group C12H14O2 in PCBM (FG). The last row shows the percentage contribution of each intermolecular group interaction. The last column shows the percentage contribution of each type of intermolecular BCPs. Reproduced from Ref. [16], Copyright (2016), with permission from Elsevier Bond type SC-C60 SC-FG BB-C60 BB-FG P3HT- PCBM Percentage (%) Isomer 1(I1) H   X 20 1 0 3 24 64.8 H   H 0 10 0 0 10 27.0 Stacking 0 0 3 0 3 8.1 Total 20 11 3 3 37 100.0 Percentage (%) 54.1 29.7 8.1 8.1 100.0 Isomer 2(I2) H   X 18 5 1 3 27 67.5 H   H 0 7 0 0 7 17.5 Stacking 0 0 4 2 6 15.0 Total 18 12 5 5 40 100.0 Percentage (%) 45.0 30.0 12.5 12.5 100.00 The QTAIM gives precise information of each bond formed in the system, which is an interesting and useful feature that has been exploited in many research areas [63]. For instance, the 37 intermolecular bonds can be grouped according to the chemical group they belong to. Following our previous work, it is useful to break down the intermolecular BCP (interBCP) bond information into contributions from (i) the P3HT side chains (SC) = C6H13, (ii) the P3HT backbone (BB), (iii) the C60 in PCBM (C60), and (iv) the PCBM functional group C12H12O2 (FG) [16]. In addition, the intermolecular bonds can be classiﬁed into three types: a BCP between two hydrogen bonds (H   H); a BCP between a hydrogen and another atom (H   X; X=C, O, S); and stacking BCP (C   C, and S   Y; Y=C, O) as deﬁned previously [16, 64, 65]. It is important to keep in mind that the weak intermolecular bonds that involve a hydrogen atom (H   H and H   X) in this work were not further subclassiﬁed according to the conventional deﬁnition of hydrogen or dihydrogen bonds. Here we only refer to a bond where a hydrogen atom is involved in an intermolecular bond. According to QTAIM, all these 37 intermolecular bonds can be classiﬁed as weak bonds because the value of the Laplacian of the electron density at position of the corresponding BCP ( r BCP) is greater than zero (2ρ( r BCP)  0) and have a small value of the electron density (ρ( r BCP)  0.01 a.u.) with an internuclear distance that is generally signiﬁcantly longer than the sum of the van der Waals radii of the 70 J. I. Rodríguez and A. W. Götz atoms sharing a given bond path (see Table1) [16, 63, 66, 67]. From Table1, we can see that the corresponding BP of each of these weak intermolecular bonds is longer (2Å) than the other covalent BPs (2Å). This is indicated by an increasingly red color in Fig.7 as the electron density decreases on these longer intermolecular BPs. The number of interBCPs belonging to each chemical group is listed in Table2 for both stable P3HT/PCBM isomers I1 and I2. We can see that noncovalent interactions involving hydrogen atoms (as H   X and H   H bonds) account for 92% and 85% of the total number of intermolecular bonds for I1 and I2, while the stacking bonding accounts only for 8% and 15% for I1 and I2, respectively. The H   X bonds represent 64.9% and 67.5% of the noncovalent interactions for I1 and I2, respectively; the H   H bonds represent 27.0% and 17.5%, for I1 and I2, respectively. Notice that the C6H13 side chains of P3HT participate in 83.8% and 75.0% of the total number of noncovalent bonds for I1 and I2, respectively; the C12H14O2 functional group of PCBM participates in 37.8% and 42.5% of the bonds [16]. From these values we can conclude that interactions between the P3HT side chains and the PCBM are mainly responsible for anchoring the P3HT into PCBM. On the other hand, intermolecular bonds that involve hydrogen atoms are the most common type of interBCPs. 5 Optical Properties In order to better quantify the effect of structural deformations due to dispersion forces on the optical properties, three idealized P3HT/PCBM dimers are considered in this section (see Fig.8). In these dimers (I3, I4, I5) the P3HT chains are planar, similar to the dimers obtained elsewhere [39] from geometry optimization with the B3LYP xc functional without Grimme dispersion correction. As stated in Sect.3, geometry optimizations did not converge for the P3HT/PCBM dimers using PBE without the Grimme dispersion correction. We therefore manually constructed the idealized dimers I3 to I5 by changing the shortest intermolecular ππ stacking dis- tance between PCBM and P3HT. Single point TDDFT calculations were performed on the optimized P3HT/PCBM dimer isomers I1 and I2 and the P3HT/PCBM dimers I3 to I5 that are shown in Fig.8. For all ﬁve dimers, the TDDFT calculations were performed with different xc functionals, PBE and B3LYP , and also including the ωB97X [51] range-separated hybrid functional to verify that the conclusions drawn are not an artifact of the cho- sen xc functional. It is well known that the range-separated functionals perform very well for different types of excitations including those with charge-transfer charac- ter which are found in P3HT/PCBM dimers (see below). Because the hybrid xc functional B3LYP and in particular the range-separated xc functional ωB97X are computationally more demanding than the PBE generalized gradient approximation xc functional, fewer excitations were computed for B3LYP and Grimmes simpliﬁed TDDFT method was used in conjunction with ωB97X, carefully checking that the number of included excitations is sufﬁcient to cover the desired range in the UV/Vis spectra. Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties  71 Fig. 8 Structure of the P3HT-PCBM dimer with different intermolecular ππ stacking distances D between an idealized, planar P3HT oligomer and PCBM. D(I3) = 3.5Å, D(I4) = 4.5Å, and D(I5) = 5.5Åfor dimers I3, I4, and I5. Reproduced from Ref. [18], Copyright (2019), with permission from Wiley Figure9 shows the absorption spectra of isolated P3HT, isolated PCBM, and the stable P3HT/PCBM dimers I1 ans I2 obtained at the TDDFT-PBE/TZP level of theory. From this ﬁgure, it can be seen that our computational results for the dimers succesfully reproduce the experimentally observed reduction of intensity in the red part and a blue-shift of the maximum absorption intensity peaks with respect to the spectrum of the isolated P3HT oligomer (see Fig.3). As discussed above in Sect.3, the translational trans symmetry of the P3HT chain is partially broken in isomer I2 but not in isomer I1 (see Fig.6). Thus it could be argued that the the structural perturbation of the P3HT chain in I2 is more drastic than in I1. Coincidentally the reduction of intensity in the red part and the blue-shift of the maximum absorption intensity peaks in I2 are also more drastic. Interestingly, these two effects have been exprimentally attributed to the deformation of the P3HT chains in the presence of PCBM and, to a lesser extent, a non-pothoinduced charge tranfer between P3HT and PCBM in the OPV active layer [26]. Both effects are conﬁrmed by our calculations. Figure10 shows that these trends are also reproduced using the hybrid B3LYP and the range-separated ωB97X xc functionals. All three xc functionals PBE (Fig.9), B3LYP (Fig.10a) and ωB97X (Fig.10b) reproduce the reduction of intensity in the red part and a blue-shift of the maximum absorption intensity peaks in the dimer spectrum with respect to the spectrum of the isolated P3HT oligomer. Figure10 gives, however, additional interesting information. As reported in our recent article [18], all computed spectra of P3HT/PCBM dimers I3I5 remain quite similar to the spectrum of pure (planar) P3HT. Actually, if the spectrum of I5, in which the intermolecular distance D is equal to 5.5Å, is superposed with the spectrum 72 J. I. Rodríguez and A. W. Götz Fig. 9 Calculated absorption spectra for isolated P3HT (red), isolated PCBM (black), P3HT-PCBM dimer isomer I1 (green) and isomer I2 (blue). The calculated absorption spectrum of isolated PCBM is also shown in the inset. The spectra were obtained via TDDFT-PBE/TZP calculations at the DFT-PBE-D3/TZP optimized geometries. The lowest 250 and 200 singlet-singlet allowed transitions were computed for isolated PCBM and P3HT, respectively; 150 allowed transitions were computed for both dimer isomers. Reproduced from Ref. [15], Copyright (2014), with permission from Elsevier of isolated P3HT, there is not any perceptible difference (see Ref. [18] for details). A small amount of quenching can be observed in the region of the main absorption peak of dimer I3 (D = 3.5Å). In other words, when intermolecular distances are larger than 3.5Å, then there is practically no interaction between P3HT and PCBM and the dimer absorption spectrum reduces entirely to the sum of the spectra of the isolated constituent molecules P3HT and PCBM. In the region between 400 and 700nm this is effectively the spectrum of isolated P3HT. The distance between P3HT and PCBM has to be as low as 3.5Å for any perceptible change in the dimer optical properties to occur due to intermolecular interaction. However, as we have discussed above, a planar P3HT is an unrealistic model system. The attractive intermolecular dispersion forces with PCBM lead to defor- mation of the P3HT oligomer as has been shown above for the stable dimer isomers I1 and I2 (see Fig.5b, c) [15]. The result of this structural deformation of P3HT is a signiﬁcant change in the optical spectra for the stable dimer isomers I1 and I2 as compared to the spectra in which P3HT is artiﬁcally kept planar. The result is a strongly quenched absorption in combination with a blue-shift of the absorption maximum (see Figs.9 and 10). We conclude that the main role that PCBM plays in affecting the optical absorption is an indirect one. PCBM induces deformation of the geometry of the P3HT chain through vdW interactions, which in turn changes Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties  73 Fig. 10 Calculated absoprtion spectrum obtained with the lowest 50 excitations using a TD-B3LYP/TZP and b sTD-ωB97X/TZP, for the optimized dimer isomers I1 (green), I2 (blue), and for the non-optimized structures (see Fig.8) with planar P3HT, dimers I3 (pink), I4 (red), and I5 (maroon) a) b) the absoroption spectrum, while direct electronic interactions between PCBM and P3HT barely reduce the absorption intensity. A small charge transfer from P3HT to PCBM as predicted by the QTAIM calculations above is responsible for the latter. The observed changes in the UV-Vis spectrum that result from interaction between P3HT and PCBM are thus almost entirely due to the structural deformation of P3HT. Similar structural deformations of P3HT have been found in experiments in which regiorandom P3HT was added to pure P3HT and are quite likely to also occur for other acceptor molecules in active layer blends of OPV devices. A more detailed discussion of the role of P3HT on the P3HT/PCBM dimer spectra can be found in our previous work [18]. 74 J. I. Rodríguez and A. W. Götz 6 Charge Separation Rates As mentioned is Sect.2, the charge separation (CS) rate constant kCS is directly proportional to the OPV efﬁciency (see Eq.1). Computing kCS theoretically is thus important to predict, with the aid of a computer, if a certain material will produce a high-performance OPV or not. DFT along with TDDFT methods have been suc- cesfully used to compute kCS within the Marcus theory framework. The classical Marcus formula is: [68] kCS =  π ℏ2λkBT V 2 i j  exp  (GCS + λ)2 4λkBT  , (2) where λ is the total reorganization energy, GCS and Vi j are the CS Gibbs energy and theelectroniccoupling,respectively; T isthetemperature,kB andℏaretheBoltzmann and reduced Planck constants. The Marcus formula 2 gives kCS corresponding to the nonadiabatic electron transfer reaction, P3HT/PCBM + hν P3HT/PCBM (3) P3HT/PCBM P3HT+/PCBM (4) wherein a molecular exciton localized at the P3HT fragment is initially formed by photon absorption (Eq.3), followed by CS after the dissociation of such a Frenkel exciton (Eq.4). We recently applied DFT/TTDFT methods within Marcus theory to compute kCS for the ﬁve P3HT/PCBM dimers I1I5 introduced in this chapter [17]. A summary of our results is shown in Table3. The TDDFT calculations were performed using the range-separated xc functional CAMY-B3LYP [49, 50] as implemented in ADF2016. The electronic coupling was calculated via the orbital approximation within the energy splitting in dimer (ESID) method [6971]. From Table3 we can see that Table 3 Electronic couplings, Vi j; excitation energies, Eexc; main HOMO (H) to LUMO (L) orbital contributions; oscillator strength values f ; and Gibbs energy for charge separation, GCS, for each P3HT/PCBM dimer under study. All energy terms in eV. The rate constant kCS (in 1/s) was calculated considering λint = 0.245eV. Reproduced with permission from Ref. [17]. Copyright (2017) American Chemical Society Isomer Vi j P3HT/PCBM P3HT+/PCBM GCS kCS Eexc Transition f Eexc Transition f I1 0.0427 3.020 HL+4 1.48 2.745 HL 0.05 0.274 5.97  1013 2.926 HL+1 0.01 0.094 2.48  1013 I2 0.0031 3.271 HL+5 0.75 3.062 HL 0.00 0.209 3.02  1011 I3 0.0020 2.846 HL+5 3.00 2.730 HL+1 0.00 0.116 7.00  1010 I4 0.0004 2.850 HL+5 3.13 2.858 HL+1 0.00 0.008 3.68  108 I5 0.0003 2.852 HL+5 3.17 2.977 HL 0.00 0.126 1.30  107 Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties  75 the fastest CS reaction is predicted for the lowest-energy P3HT/PCBM isomer I1. Besides, this value of kCS for I1 (kI1 CS = 8.46  1013 s1) is the only one that matches the reported experimental value (kexp CS  4  1012 s1) of the OPV whose active layer is a mix of P3HT and PCBM. The value of kCS for the dimer isomer I2 (kI2 CS = 3.02  1011 s1) is just one order of magnitude below the experimental value. The values of kCS for the other P3HT/PCBM dimers I3I5, however, are three to six orders of magnitude below the experimental value. Thus, as it was concluded in our original work [17], the CS reaction is predicted to be up to three (six) orders of magnitude faster for the P3HT/PCBM isomers with realistic structures obtained by properly modeling the vdW interactions (I1 and I2) than for P3HT/PCBM dimer structures with intermolecular distances of 3.5Å(5.55Å) in which vdW forces are not explicitly accounted for (I3I5). Therefore, it can be concluded that faster photoinduced CS is attained by states whose geometry and electronic structure are properly predicted, which is the case here for the dimer isomers I1 and I2 with distorted, U-shaped P3HT. These conclusions give quantitative evidence that vdW interactions have to be taken into account for the proper quantum physical modeling of CS reactions and thus computational predictions of the efﬁciency of BHJ organic solar cells. 7 Conclusions In this chapter we have shown how DFT/TDDFT based methods can be used to properly reproduce experimentally observed OPV properties. First, a partial search of the dimer formed by a P3HT 8-unit oligomer and a PCBM molecule was carried out at the DFT/PBE-D3/TZP level of theory to obtain stable P3HT/PCBM dimers. The structure of such dimers gives an acurate picture of the amorphous P3HT-PCBM interface at the molecular level. It was demostrated that van der Waals forces play an important role in stabilizing the P3HT/PCBM dimers. Hence it is critical to employ an xc functional with dispersion corrections during the geometry optimizations. The stable dimer structures were used to compute the optical properties using TDDFT with different xc functionals. The UV-Vis absorption spectra thus obtained describe the exerimental data qualitatively quite well. While qualitative features of the absorption spectra are reproduced already with GGA xc functionals, range- separated hybrid xc functional such as ωB97X should be employed to avoid spurious charge transfer states and improve quantitative agreement with experiment. Perform- ing TDDFT calculations with the range-separated CAMY-B3LYP xc functional, the charge separation rate constant kCS was computed for ﬁve P3HT/PCBM dimers (I1 I5). Here, I1 and I2 are low-lying dimer isomers obtained through geometry opti- mization with dispersion corrected DFT, while I3 through I5 have a geometry with planar P3HT at typical ππ stacking distance between P3HT and PCBM as would be obtained without dispersion correction. While kCS is grossly underestimated by several orders of magnitude for isomers I3 to I5, the value for the lowest-energy P3HT/PCBM dimer I1 (k I1 CS = 8.46  1013 s1) agrees exceptionally well with the reported experimental value (kexp CS  4  1012 s1). To the best of our knowledge, 76 J. I. Rodríguez and A. W. Götz no computational value of kCS matching the experimental value had been reported before. We believe that the high quality of the DFT-D3 approximation in predicting real- istic dimer structures along with using a range-separated xc functional to compute the excited states are key ingredients to reliably obtain high quality data with pre- dictive power for optical absorption spectra and the charge-separation rate constant in BHJ-OPV materials. References 1. REN21 (2019) Renewables 2019 global status report. Paris: REN21 Secretariat, ISBN 978-3- 9818911-7-1 2. Sun S, Sariciftci N (eds) (2005) The story of solar cells. In: Organic photovoltaics: mechanisms, materials, and devices. Taylor and Francis Group LLC, Florida 3. Sun SS, Sariciftci NS (eds) (2005) Organic photovoltaics: mechanisms, materials, and devices. Taylor & Francis Group, Boca Raton, Florida 4. Brabec CJ, Dyakonov V, Parisi J, Sariciftci NS (eds) (2003) Organic photovoltaics: concepts and realization. Springer, Berlin 5. Chappell B (2014) http://www.npr.org/blogs/thetwo-way/2014/11/10/363023227/solar-bike- path-opens-this-week-in-the-netherlands. Last accessed on 30 March 2020 6. Wang R, Zhang X, Zhang D (2018) Fluorination with an enlarged dielectric constant prompts charge separation and reduces bimolecular recombination in non-fullerene organic solar cells with a high ﬁll factor and efﬁciency 13%. Nano Ener 56:494501 7. Yao H, Zhao W, Li S (2017) Molecular optimization enables over 13% efﬁciency. J Am Chem Soc 139:71487151 8. Xie S, Wang R, Zhang D (2018) High efﬁciency non-fullerene organic solar cells without electron transporting layers enabled by lewis base anion doping. Nano Ener 51:736744 9. Hong L, Yu R, Yao H (2018) Design and application of volatilizable solid additives in non- fullerene organic solar cells. Nature Comm 9:4645 10. Brédas JL, Norton JE, Cornil J, Coropceanu V (2009) Molecular understanding of organic solar cells: the challenges. Acc Chem Res 42:16911699 11. Scharber MC, Mühlbacher D, Koppe M, Denk P, Waldauf C, Heeger AJ, Brabec CJ (2006) Design rules for donors in bulk-heterojunction solar cells: towards 10% energy-conversion efﬁciency. Adv Mater 18:789794 12. Kohn P, Rong Z, Scherer KH, Sepe A, Sommer M, Müller-Buschbaum P, Friend RH, Steiner U, Hüttner S (2013) Crystallization-induced 10-nm structure formation in P3HT/PCBM blends. Macromolecules 46:40024013 13. Liu T, Troisi A (2011) Absolute rate of charge separation and recombination in a molecular model of the P3HT/PCBM interface. J Phys Chem C 115:24062415 14. Grancini G, Polli D, Fazzi D, Cabanillas-Gonzalez J, Cerullo G, Lanzani G (2011) Transient absorption imaging of P3HT:PCBM photovoltaic blend: evidence for interfacial charge transfer state. J Phys Chem Lett 2:10991105 15. Gutiérrez-González I, Rodríguez JI, Molina-Brito B, Götz AW, Castillo-Alvarado FL (2014) Structural and electronic properties of the P3HT-PCBM dimer: a theoretical study. Chem Phys Lett 612:234239 16. Rodríguez JI, Matta C, Uribe C, Götz AW, Castillo-Alvarado FL, Molina-Brito B (2016) A QTAIM topological analysis of the P3HT-PCBM dimer. Chem Phys Lett 644:157162 17. Martinez JP, Rodriguez JI, Trujillo-Gonzalez DE, Götz AW, Castillo-Alvarado F (2017) Effects of dispersion forces on structure and photoinduced charge separation in organic photovoltaics. J Phys Chem C 121:20,13420,140 Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties  77 18. Götz AW, Rodriguez JI, Castillo-Alvarado FL, Trujillo-Gonzalez DE (2019) Van der Waals effects on structure and optical properties in organic photovoltaics. Int J Quantum Chem 119:e25883 19. Hauch J, Schilinsky P, Choulis S, Childers R, Biele M, Brabec C (2008) Flexible organic P3HT:PCBM bulk-heterojunction modules with more than 1 year outdoor lifetime. Energy Mater Sol Cells 92:727731 20. Dennler G, Forberich K, Scharber MC, Brabec C, Tomis I, Hingerl K, Fromherz T (2007) Angle dependence of external and internal quantum efﬁciencies in bulk-heterojunction organic solar cells. J Appl Phys 102(054):516 21. Illescas BM, Martín N (2000) [60]Fullerene adducts with improved electron acceptor proper- ties. J Organ Chem 65:59865995 22. Nazario M, Sánchez L, Illescas B, Pérez I (1998) C60-based electroactive organofullerenes. Chem Rev 98:25272548 23. Kawashima Y, Ohkubo K, Fukuzumi S (2013) Small reorganization energies of photoinduced electron transfer between spherical fullerenes. J Phys Chem A 117:67376743 24. Ihly R, Mistry KS, Ferguson AJ, Clikeman TT, Larson BW, Reid O, Boltalina OV, Strauss SH, Rumbles G, Blackburn JL (2016) Tuning the driving force for exciton dissociation in single-walled carbon nanotube heterojunctions. Nat Chem 8:603609 25. Yang X, Loss J, Veenstra S, Verhees W, Wienk M, Kroon J, Michels M, Janssen R (2005) Nanoscale morphology of high-performance polymer solar cells. Nano Lett 5(4):579583 26. Li G, Shrotriya V, Yao Y, Huang J, Yang Y (2007) Manipulating regioregular poly(3- hexylthiophene): [6,6]-phenyl-c61-butyric acid methyl ester blends - route towards high efﬁ- ciency polymer solar cells. J Mater Chem 17:31263140 27. Kim Y, Cook S (2006) A strong regioregularity effect in self-organizing conjungated polymer ﬁlms and high-efﬁciency polythiophene: fullerren solar cells. Nature Materials 5:197203 28. Piris J, Dykstra T, Bakulin A, Van Loosdrecht P, Knulst W, Trinh M, Schins J, Siebbeles L (2009) Photogeneration and ultrafast dynamics of excitons and charges in P3HT/PCBM blends. J Phys Chem 113:14,50014,506 29. Shrotriya V, Ouyang J, Tseng RJ, Li G, Yang Y (2005) Absorption spectra modiﬁcation in poly(3-hexylthiophene): methanofullerene blend thin ﬁlms. Chem Phys Lett 411:138143 30. Perdew JP, Burke K, Ernzerhof M (1996) Generalized gradient approximation made simple. Phys Rev Lett 77:38653868 31. Kanai Y, Grossman J (2007) Insights on interfacial charge transfer across P3HT/fullerene photovoltaic heterojunction from ab initio calculations. Nano Lett 7:19671972 32. Liu T, Cheung D, Troisi A (2011) Structural variability and dynamics of the P3HT/PCBM interface and its effects on the electronic structure and the charge-transfer in solar cells. Phys Chem Chem Phys 13(21):461 33. Woods LM, Dalvit D, Tkatchenko A, Rodriguez-Lopez P, Rodriguez AW, Podgornik R (2016) Materials perspective on Casimir and van der Waals interactions. Rev Mod Phys 88(045):003 34. Hermann J, DiStasio R, Tkatchenko A (2017) First-principles models for van der Waals interac- tions in molecules and materials: concepts, theory, and applications. Chem Rev 117:47144758 35. DiStasio RA, Gobre VV, Tkatchenko A (2014) Many-body van der Waals interactions in molecules and condensed matter. J Phys: Condens Matter 26(213):202 36. Tkatchenko A (2015) Current understanding of van der Waals effects in realistic materials. Adv Funct Mater 25:20542061 37. Grimme S, Antony J, Schwabe T, Muck-Lichtenfeld C (2007) Density functional theory with dispersioncorrectionsforsupramolecularstructures,aggregates,andcomplexesof(bio)organic molecules. Org Biomol Chem 5:741758 38. Beenken WJD, Herrmann F, Presselt M, Hoppe H, Shokhovets S, Gobsch G, Runge E (2013) Sub-bandgap absorption in organic solar cells: experiment and theory. Phys Chem Chem Phys 15:16,49416,502 39. Liu T, Troisi A (2011) Absolute rate of charge separation and recombination in a molecular model of the P3HT/PCBM interface. J Phys Chem 15(5):24062415 78 J. I. Rodríguez and A. W. Götz 40. Marchiori C, Koehler M (2010) Dipole assisted exciton dissociation at conjugated poly- mer/fullerene photovoltaic interfaces: a molecular study using density functional theory cal- culations. Synthetic Metals 160:643650 41. Roncali J (1992) Conjugated poly(thiophenes) synthesis, functionalization, and applications. Chem Rev 92(4):711738 42. Baerends E, Autschbach J, Berger J, Berces A, Bickelhaupt F, Bo C, De-Boeij P, Boerrigter P, Cavallo L, Chong D, Deng L, Dickson R, Ellis D, Van-Faassen M, Fan L, Fischer T, Fonseca- Guerra C, Van-Gisbergen S, Götz A, Groeneveld J, Gritsenko O, Grüning M, Harris F, Van den Hoek P, Jacob C, Jacobsen H, Jensen L, Kadantsev E, Van Kessel G, Klooster R, Kootstra F, Krykunov M, Van Lenthe E, Louwen J, McCormack D, Michalak A, Neugebauer J, Nicu V, Osinga V, Patchkovskii S, Philipsen P, Post D, Pye C, Ravenek W, Rodríguez J, Romaniello P, Ros P, Schipper P, Schreckenbach G, Snijders J, Sola M, M S, Swerhone D, T Velde G, Vernooijs P, Versluis L, Visscher L, Visser O, Wang F, Wesolowski T, Van Wezenbeek EM, Wiesenekker G, Wolff S, Woo T, Yakovlev A, Ziegler T (2018) Theoretical Chemistry, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, The Netherlands. http://www.scm.com. Accessed on February 23, 2019 43. Fonseca-Guerra C, Snijders J, Velde G, Baerends EJ (1998) Towards an order: n DFT method. Theoret Chem Acc 99:391403 44. Velde G, Bickelhaupt F, Baerends F, Fonseca-Guerra C, Van Gisbergen S, Snijders J, Ziegler T (2001) Chemistry with ADF. J Comput Chem 22:931967 45. Van Lenthe E, Baerends EJ (2003) Optimized Slater-type basis sets for the elements 1118. J Comput Chem 24:11421156 46. Grimme S, Antony J, Ehrlich S, Krieg H (2010) A consistent and accurate ab initio parametriza- tion of density functional dispersion correction (DFT-D) for the 94 elements H-Pu. J Chem Phys 132(154):104 47. Becke A (1993) Density-functional thermochemistry. III. The role of exact exchange. J Chem Phys 98:56485652 48. Stephens P, Devlin F, Chabalowski C, Frisch M (1994) Ab initio calculation of vibrational absorption and circular dichroism spectra using density functional force ﬁelds. J Phys Chem 98:11,62311,627 49. Yanai T, Tew DP, Handy NC (2004) A new hybrid exchange-correlation functional using the Coulomb-attenuating method (CAM-B3LYP). Chem Phys Lett 393:5157 50. Seth M, Ziegler T (2012) Range-separated exchange functionals with Slater-type functions. J Chem Theory Comput 8:901907 51. Chai JD, Head-Gordon M (2008) Systematic optimization of long-range corrected hybrid density functionals. J Chem Phys 128(084):106 52. Jacquemin D, Mennucci B, Adamo C (2011) Excited-state calculations with TD-DFT: from benchmarks to simulations in complex environments. Phys Chem Chem Phys 13:16,987 16,998 53. AdamoC,JacqueminD(2013)Thecalculationsofexcited-statepropertieswithtime-dependent density functional theory. Chem Soc Rev 42:845856 54. Bannwarth C, Grimme S (2014) A simpliﬁed time-dependent density functional theory approach for electronic ultraviolet and circular dichroism spectra of very large molecules. Comput Theor Chem 10401041:4553 55. Franchini M, Philipsen PHT, Visscher L (2013) The Becke fuzzy cells integration scheme in the Amsterdam density functional program suite. J Comput Chem 34:18191827 56. Lehtola S, Steigemann C, Oliveira MJT, Marques MAL (2018) Recent developments in libxc: a comprehensive library of functionals for density functional theory. SoftwareX 7:15 57. Rodríguez J, Bader R, Ayers P, Michel C, Götz A, Bo C (2009) A high performance grid-based algorithm for computing QTAIM properties. Chem Phys Lett 472:149 58. Rodríguez J, Ayers P, Götz A, Castillo-Alvarado F (2009) Virial theorem within the Kohn- Sham density-functional theory formalism: accurate calculation of the atomic quantum theory of atoms in molecules energies. J Chem Phys 131(021):101 Structure, Electronic, and Charge Transfer Properties  79 59. Rodríguez J, Autsbach J, Castillo-Alvarado F, Baltazar-Mendez M (2011) Size evolution study of molecular and atom-in-cluster polarizabilities of medium-size gold clusters. J Chem Phys 135(034):109 60. Rodríguez J (2013) An efﬁcient method for computing the QTAIM topology of a scalar ﬁeld: the electron density case. J Comput Chem 34:681 61. Bader R (1994) Atoms in molecules: a quantum theory. Oxford University Press 62. Bader RFW (2001) The zero-ﬂux surface and the topological and quantum deﬁnitions of an atom in a molecule. Theoret Chem Acc 105:276283 63. Matta C, Boyd RE (eds) (2007) The quantum theory of atoms in molecules. From Solid State to DNA and Drug Design, Wiley-VCH, Weinheim 64. Zhikol O, Shishkin O, Lyssenko A, Leszczynski L (2005) Electron density distribution in stackedbenzenedimers:anewapproachtowardstheestimationofstackinginteractionenergies. J Chem Phys 122(144):104 65. Waller M, Robertazzi A, Platts J, Hibbs D, Williams P (2006) Hybrid density functional theory for pi-stacking interactions: applications to benzenes, pyridines, and DNA bases. J Comput Chem 27(4):491504 66. Bakhmutov V (ed) (2008) Dihydrogen bonds: principles, experiments, and applications. Wiley- Interscience, New Jersey 67. Crabtree R (1990) Dihydrogen complexes: some structural and chemical studies. Acc Chem Res 23(4):95101 68. Marcus RA (1993) Electron transfer reactions in chemistry: theory and experiment. Rev Mod Phys 65:599610 69. Senthilkumar K, Grozema FC, Bickelhaupt FM, Siebbeles LDA (2003) Charge transport in columnar stacked triphenylenes: effects of conformational ﬂuctuations on charge transfer inte- grals and site energies. J Chem Phys 119:98099817 70. Senthilkumar K, Grozema FC, Fonseca-Guerra C, Bickelhaupt FM, Lewis FD, Berlin YA, Ratner MA, Siebbeles LDA (2005) Absolute rates of hole transfer in DNA. J Am Chem Soc 127:14,89414,903 71. Coropceanu V, Cornil J, da Silva Filho DA, Olivier Y, Silbey R, Brédas JL (2007) Charge transport in organic semiconductors. Chem Rev 107:926952 Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: A Brief Historical Perspective and Uses in Multijunction Devices Andrew Daniel and Jared H. Delcamp Abstract A brief history of the development of solar-to-electric devices is discussed for the classically researched solar cell technologies including Si, CIGS, CdTe, GaAs, OPV, DSC, and PSC devices. Relative strengths and weaknesses of these technolo- gies are presented along with the importance of multijunction system research toward higher efﬁciency solar-to-electric systems. The combining of DSCs with each tech- nology is discussed along with potential directions for designing next generation multijunction systems. 1 A Brief Historical Perspective Since the initial investigations of Alexandre-Edmond Becquerel in 1839, solar cell technologies have been steadily progressing with remarkable developments in power conversion efﬁciencies. Historical landmark achievements include the development of a 1% efﬁcient solar cell by Charles Fritts in 1883, the ﬁrst solar cell patent by Edward Weston in 1888, the Nobel Prize in Physics being awarded to Albert Einstein in 1921 for his work on the photoelectric effect, and Bell Labs announce- ment of the ﬁrst practical silicon solar cell at about 6% in 1954. From this point, silicon solar cells have continuously improved to nearing the ShockleyQueisser limit for a single-junction device (near 33%) and have dominated multijunction efﬁ- ciencies at up to 47% certiﬁed efﬁciency today (Fig. 1). Alternatives to silicon solar cells have been attractive due to the harsh processing environments of silicon photovoltaic components which typically require slow crystallization of molten high purity silicon for high efﬁciencies. Gallium arsenide (GaAs, 1950s), copper gallium indium diselenide (CIGS, 1932), cadmium telluride (CdTe, 1950s), and amorphous silicon alternatives have emerged since the initial photovoltaic discoveries. Pricing advantages due to both the need for relatively small amounts of materials with thin A. Daniel  J. H. Delcamp (B) Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Mississippi, 481 Coulter Hall, University, MS 38677, USA e-mail: delcamp@olemiss.edu  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021 J. K. Roy et al. (eds.), Development of Solar Cells, Challenges and Advances in Computational Chemistry and Physics 32, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-69445-6_4 81 82 A. Daniel and J. H. Delcamp Fig. 1 ShockleyQueisser limit with bandgaps of various solar cell technologies marked. DSCs and OPVs are shown as tunable across a broad range of wavelengths ﬁlm processing and more benign processing approaches, among other characteris- tics, have led to many of these technologies being mass produced. More recently, the processability approach has been the focus of multiple modern advances in dye-sensitized solar cells (DSCs, 1991), organic photovoltaics (OPVs, 2001), and perovskite solar cells (PSCs, 2009). All of these technologies can be processed via solution-basedtechniqueswhichdramaticallylowerspricingtoanestimatedlessthan half that of crystalline silicon solar cells in many cases at a minimum. GaAs, CIGS, or CdTe technologies face some limitations in performance efﬁciencies under full sun irradiation conditions with practical sized, stable panels relative to crystalline silicon. However, the cost of production of GaAs, CIGS or CdTe largely offsets the perfor- mance deﬁciency for applications where solar irradiation area is not limited. Each of the solution processable technologies have faced unique challenges with OPVs needing better charge domain ordering, DSCs needing functional broader absorption materials, and PSCs initially suffering from substantial instability primarily due to intense sensitivity to moisture. Among these three solution processable technologies, DSCs [17] have shown the highest performance under indoor lighting conditions even out competing GaAs [8]. Furthermore, DSCs have shown signiﬁcantly higher performances under prac- tical outdoor environments than most technologies [9]. A critical point to keep in mind when analyzing the peak efﬁciencies commonly reported among the solar cell technologies (as described in the ﬁrst paragraph of this chapter) is that the conditions Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: A Brief Historical Perspective  83 studied for peak performance are set to 1 sun intensity, on a cloudless day, with a perfect 90 incident angle to the solar cell surface. These conditions are effec- tively only operative for a very short time each day at the earths equator year-round. Unfortunately, relatively few studies exist which compare these technologies under practical settings, which is probably due to a lack of a standardization for what practical conditions should be used as the benchmarking method. However, for the studies that do exist, DSCs have shown remarkable total power generation perfor- mance throughout a day since they excel in low light intensity environments in the morning and evening. Additionally, DSCs do not require an incident light tracking mechanical system to reposition them throughout the day since incident light angle is not as critical to DSCs as it is for purely inorganic technologies with signiﬁcant refraction as incident angles narrow. Comparatively to OPVs, DSCs have several clear advantages in that the deﬁning seminal discovery of modern DSCs solved the charge carrier phase separation issue plaguing OPVs by using a combination of solution processable inorganic and organic materials. Conceptually, DSCs rely on single molecule behavior which can be more rationally tuned relative to the bulk biphasic materials used in OPVs that typically employ bulk polymeric materials without discrete predictable energetics, especially in the solid phase. DSCs uniquely operate with a similar diffusion-based mechanism to natural photosynthetic systems which allows for isolated chromophores bound to a surface to undergo photophysical processes in isolation from other chromophores. This unique property of DSCs is exceptional as it allows for materials to be designed with molecular level control of photophysical properties. Even though PSCs have some spectral tunability, DSCs have an incredibly broader set of tunable photo- physical properties due to the molecular level being explorable. The most efﬁcient PSCs are all currently lead-based systems using CH3NH3PbX3 where X is I, Br, or Cl. These materials are inherently moisture sensitive which requires rigorous dry processing and excellent encapsulation/operational environments to last longer than a few minutes. Despite these challenges, PSCs have shown the highest efﬁciencies among the OPVs, DSCs, and PSCs technologies, and PSCs are progressing toward widespread commercialization. By comparison, DSCs are often processed in open ambient air conditions for the record setting devices in the ﬁeld. In fact, DSCs have been shown to operate efﬁciently with water added to the system with numerous stress test reports showing exceptionally robust results with electricity production under harsh temperature and lighting environments [10, 11]. DSCs have also shown stabilities greatly exceeding the time limits of the 1000 h continuous irradiation stress test at elevated temperatures [11, 12]. Thus, arguably, DSCs may still be one of the most promising solar cell technology when cost and practical consideration are weighed for single cell systems under certain environments. This has led to exceptional displays recently of DSCs in building integrated photovoltaics (BIPVs) in numerous locations world-wide and in consumer electronic areas [2, 9, 13, 14]. 84 A. Daniel and J. H. Delcamp 2 Multijunction System Performances and Analysis Notably, the above historical perspective discussion is concerned with single cell systems with the exception of the mention of a 47% silicon-based solar cell system. This landmark achievement for the photovoltaic community was made possible by pursing multijunction systems with silicon solar cells which can exceed the theoret- ical ShockleyQueisser limit of a single-junction device (33% PCE). Single junc- tion silicon cells are near 28% PCE presently. With limited room for improvement, multijunction systems are critical to PCE improvements that use photons more efﬁ- ciently (Fig. 1). Initial multijunction certiﬁed efﬁciencies were reported just below 28%. Notably, in several instances, single-junction GaAs devices reported higher efﬁ- ciencies than their multijunction device counterparts, and the multijunction system showed only a 2% power conversion efﬁciency increase over single-junction silicon devices at the time of the discovery. However, the theoretical potential for multijunc- tion technologies has fueled continuous research efforts which have led to the highest known solar cell performances to date. The key advantage to multijunction systems is that thermal losses are reduced by using materials with varied optical gaps (Fig. 2). In a single-junction system, a solar cell device uses photons across the solar spectrum from high to low energy until the light absorbing material can no longer absorb light because the energy gap of the material becomes too large to facilitate charge separation (Fig. 1). In single-junction systems, charges are separated to the same energetic levels (the photovoltage of the system) regardless of energy input. This means that both low energy photons and high energy photons generate charge separation events of the same voltage or Fig. 2 Example of how possible solar cell photovoltage outputs change in various spectral regions with example energy level values versus normal hydrogen electrode (NHE) for dyes in DSC devices Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: A Brief Historical Perspective  85 thermodynamic value. This results in the inherent loss of heat from high energy photons as excess energy is provided to generate charge carriers. As an example, a single-junction material absorbing light to 1000 nm (1.2 eV) can theoretically output a maximum of 1.2 V (see Fig. 2, for example, practical voltage values). If the same 1000 nm absorbing material absorbs a photon at 450 nm, a maximum of 1.2 V can be output from the device despite the photon providing 2.8 eV. The remaining 1.6 eV of energy from the photon (over half of the energetic value) is lost as heat. Multijunction systems seek to correct this problem by using multiple light absorbing materials tailored to each spectral region to avoid energetic losses. Two key challenges with this approach are: (1) designing systems that use high energy photons (600 nm) efﬁciently, and (2) identifying systems that work well under reduced light intensity since the photons are effectively divided or ﬁltered by each light absorbing material in the multijunction system such that only the material on top is receiving full sun intensity input. Presently, the high energy region is dominated by DSCs. DSCs and OPVs are most easily tuned to efﬁciently use the high energy region; whereas, many of the other technologies rely on ﬁxed (or nearly ﬁxed) optical gap materials which have focused on low energy photon use and single-junction systems near the ShockleyQueisser limit primarily (Fig. 1). Given the molecular level of control over chromophore design, DSCs are an attractive research area for designing high energy photon use systems. These systems could then be combined with any technology that efﬁciently uses lower energy photons for a high performing multijunction system. Several approaches to the use of DSCs as a component of multijunction devices have been pursued with either all DSC components or with inorganic subcells. The most common approach is for two junction systems (or two-subcell systems) which are commonly referred to as tandem solar cells when combined. Throughout this chapter, the term multijunction will be used since tandem speciﬁcally refers to two junction or two-subcell systems, but other notable uses of three or more subcells are discussed. The term subcell will also be used throughout this chapter in reference to a photovoltaic within a multijunction system. Two possible approaches exist for connecting the subcells of the multijunction system: series or parallel connections (Fig. 3). In the case of a series wired system, the photovoltages are summed across each subcell with the photocurrent limited by the lowest photocurrent subcell of the system. In the case of a parallel wired system, the opposite is true with a summing of the photocurrents of the subcells and the photovoltage is limited by the lowest photovoltage subcell of the system. Theoretically, either approach would lead to the same overall power conversion efﬁciency in a no-heat-loss system with either balanced photocurrent (series wiring) or balanced photovoltages (parallel wiring). The balancing of photocurrent or photovoltage is crucial to avoid thermal losses since the lowest performing subcell regulates the output of these metrics based on the wiring selection. Ultimately, multijunction systems result in either a high photocurrent system or a high photovoltage system with photovoltage or photocur- rent distributed among the subcells, respectively. With respect to the use of DSCs in multijunction systems, series wiring is attractive because DSCs operate most efﬁ- ciently in the high energy photon region before the ShockleyQueisser limit relative to most other solar cell technologies. In this region, high photovoltages are possible, 86 A. Daniel and J. H. Delcamp Fig. 3 Comparison of series versus parallel connections for multijunction devices with example values of each subcell listed and how these translate to the overall multijunction device performance and the summation of these values together leads to high voltage but low current systems. The reduced current is attractive since it requires less oxidation and reduc- tion cycles to stress device components, and alleviates some of the signiﬁcant concern about photocurrent limits within DSC devices, especially with regard to the DSC devices that utilize large transition metal-based complexes which typically diffuse through TiO2 pores to transport electrons [15]. Additionally, the DSC components can be tuned in terms of absorption breadth, active layer thickness, and dye molar absorptivities to adjust photocurrent outputs from each subcell in order to balance the photocurrent output of each subcell for minimal thermal losses. In addition to the wiring approach potentially affecting overall performance of a multijunction system, the conﬁguration of the subcells plays a key role in device performance. This book chapter speciﬁcally discusses single illuminated area multi- junctionsystems rather thanarrays, modules, or side-by-sideilluminationapproaches that might be wired in either series or parallel but are simply comprised of multiple solar cells without photon management considerations. For single illuminated area systems, the wide energy gap material should be the top or ﬁrst subcell to receive incident light since this subcell will typically act as a ﬁlter for subsequent subcells. The subcells after the widest energy gap material should progressively narrow energy gaps of the photoactive component from widest to narrowest since each subcell is a ﬁlter for the subcells below it. There are three distinct approaches to a multijunction Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: A Brief Historical Perspective  87 Fig. 4 Multijunction device conﬁgurations with a top (blue) subcell and a bottom (red) subcell. In the monolithic approach, the light gray component is a thin separation layer. In the dichroic- mirrored approach, the dark gray component is a ﬁltered mirror allowing long wavelength light to pass and short wavelength light to be reﬂected system discussed in this chapter: (1) mechanically stacked subcells, (2) monolithic approaches, and (3) dichroic-mirrored approaches (Fig. 4). Each of these approaches allow for a single illuminated area with the photon management strategy relying on a ﬁltering of wavelengths. The simplest approach is a mechanically stacked approach where individual subcells are single-junction solar cells stacked on top of one another and wired together. The advantage of this approach is that each subcell can be individually tested and optimized through simple removal from the multijunction system and reinsertion. Additionally, the construction of these systems is one of the simplest possible. The disadvantage of this approach is that photons must pass through all layers of each subcell including typically non-irradiated counter electrodes where transparency is often not necessary for single-junction systems. Also, the photons encounter a number of interfaces including solid-air interfaces where photon diffrac- tion and scattering can be problematic due to drastic changes in refractive indices of the mediums where photons are traveling. The second approach, a monolithic design, is the most compact and is attractive for retaining photons within the device since minimal additional components are required which reduces photon losses. In this system, the photoactive components are often separated by an insulating layer to slow backward electron transfer events, and the subcells are built directly on top of one another. Inherently, these systems are internally series connected. This approach, however, can be challenging as the device construction has many methods that require thermal deposition protocols by solvent evaporation with photoactive components in place which raises concerns about stabilities. Additionally, each multijunction system must be fabricated de novo in order to evaluate the effects of each layer rather than by simply replacing a stand-alone subcell. Finally, a dichroic-mirrored approach is also possible which alleviates the necessity for all transparent components within a subcell and reduces the number of photon interactions between non-photoactive layers, but this approach is most commonly implemented with two-subcell systems only. In this system, the subcells are fully functional solar cell devices that can be 88 A. Daniel and J. H. Delcamp individually optimized, and placed on opposite sides of a mirror that can allow long wavelengths to pass but reﬂects shorter wavelengths. Each of these approaches are discussed in relation to reported systems in the following chapter sections with DSC devices most often used as the top subcell and various solar cell technologies used as the subsequent subcells in the multijunction devices. 3 DSC/DSC Multijunction Systems The current record setting performance for a two-subcell DSC/DSC multijunction system was shown by Kim et al. in 2017 with two intramolecular charge transfer organic/porphyrin dyes (SGT-137 and SGT-021) at 14.6% with a parallel wiring scheme with a mechanically stacked multijunction device (Table 1, Fig. 5) [16]. This record performance was made possible by a porphyrin dye (SGT-021) absorbing strongly into the NIR region with an incident photon-to-current conversion efﬁciency (IPCE) onset near 800 nm. Very few dyes operate in this spectral region within DSC devices with high photovoltages (500 mV) [17]. A donor-π bridge-acceptor (D-π- A) type dye (SGT-137) was used as the front absorbing subcell which also shows an IPCE onset of near 800 nm. Chromophores with different spectral region absorptions were not used, so no gain in theoretical PCE is available with this system over the highest preforming subcell as a stand-alone DSC device. Practically, the dyes used in devices seem to be current limited to approximately 19 mA/cm2 for each indi- vidual device even though 28 mA/cm2 is theoretically available in this spectral range (Table 1, entries 13) [6]. The subcells were wired in parallel to sum the photocurrent in each device with photovoltage limited by the lowest photovoltage device with a good balance within 4 mV observed (Table 1, entries 45). The advantage of this strategy is that each subcell is only required to pass 14 mA/cm2 if the photons are evenly divided between them which alleviates any potential mass transport issues for these devices which use a relatively bulky cobalt redox shuttle compared to triio- dide/iodide. For maximal efﬁciency, the photovoltages should be balanced between the two subcells, and to aid in this, both subcells use a co-sensitization dye (HC- A1 or HC-A4) speciﬁcally selected to increase the device photovoltage by limiting recombination of electrons in TiO2 with the electrolyte for each subcell (Table 1, entries 12). This allows each subcell to maintain an overall open-circuit voltage (V OC) of near 880 mV and divide the photocurrent (JSC) between each subcell. In the parallel device conﬁguration, a total photocurrent of 22 mA/cm2 is obtained which is higher than either subcell alone (Table 1, entries 2, 3, and 6). This strategy of using equal optical gap dyes in tandem is particularly useful for solar cells employing dyes and redox shuttles that have photocurrent limited systems. However, it should be noted that the use of dyes with identical optical gaps in a multijunction system has no theoretical advantage over a single dye system since no additional photocur- rent can be added to the system through broader photon absorption, and all of the photons provide the same photovoltage in these systems. More importantly though, Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: A Brief Historical Perspective  89 Table 1 Multijunction devices and measurements of individual subcells in multijunction device conﬁgurations Entry Devicea VOC (V) JSC (mA/cm2) FF PCE (%) 1 [16] SGT-137 (single cell) 0.825 19.4 0.74 11.8 2 [16] SGT-137 + HC-A1 (single cell) 0.884 18.4 0.77 12.5 3 [18] SGT-021 (single cell) 0.819 17.9 0.75 11.1 4 [16] SGT-137 + HC-A1/SGT-021 + HC-A4 (top) 0.877 16.2 0.73 10.4 5 [16] SGT-137 + HC-A1/SGT-021 + HC-A4 (bottom) 0.881 6.1 0.79 4.3 6 [16] SGT-137 + HC-A1/SGT-021 + HC-A4 (parallel) 0.878 22.1 0.76 14.6 7 [19] D35/Y123 1.92 5.9 0.62 7.1 8 [19] D35/Y123/HD-2-mono 2.63 3.9 0.74 7.7 9 [19] D35/D35/Y123/Y123/Y123 4.67 2.4 0.38 4.3 10 [20] RR9 (Fe, single cell) 1.42 2.8 0.47 1.9 11 [20] RR9 (Fe)/D35 (Co)/Y123 (Co) 3.18 2.2 0.49 3.5 12 [20] RR9 (Fe)/Y123 (Co)/Y123 (Co) 3.34 1.9 0.56 3.5 13 [21] D35/B11/B11 CYTOP/Oil 2.29 5.7 0.76 10.1 14 [21] D35/D35/Y123/B11/B11 CYTOP 4.07 2.5 0.64 6.7 15 [22] D102 (single cell) 0.810 8.8 0.58 4.1 16 [22] OPV (ZnPc, single cell) 0.550 14.3 0.54 4.2 17 [22] D102/OPV 1.36 8.2 0.54 6.0 18 [23] N719 (single cell) 0.810 24.0 0.60 11.6 19 [23] PSC (bottom) 0.620 8.1 0.45 2.2 20 [23] N719/PSC 0.760 28.7 0.53 11.6 21 [24] DX3 (single cell) 0.552 30.3 0.60 10.0 22 [24] PSC (single cell) 1.12 20.7 0.79 18.4 23 [24] DX3/PSC    21.5 24 [25] Y123 (I, single cell)b 0.74 8.3 0.66 4.1 25 [25] Y123 (Co, single cell)c 0.85 9.0 0.53 4.1 26 [25] CIGS (single cell) 0.51 27.1 0.65 9.0 27 [25] Y123 (I)/CIGS 1.05 8.1 0.65 5.6 28 [25] Y123 (Co)/CIGS 1.13 8.2 0.66 6.1 29 [26] N719 (single cell) 0.815 13.9 0.73 8.3 30 [26] CIGS (single cell) 0.627 29.7 0.63 11.7 31 [26] N719/CIGS 1.44 14.1 0.61 12.4 32 [27] SGT-021 (single cell) 0.90 16.8 0.76 11.4 33 [27] c-Si (single cell) 0.53 36.3 0.69 13.2 (continued) 90 A. Daniel and J. H. Delcamp Table 1 (continued) Entry Devicea VOC (V) JSC (mA/cm2) FF PCE (%) 34 [27] SGT-021/c-Si 1.36 18.1 0.69 17.2 (18.1)d atop and bottom refer to the subcell being measured at that position in the multijunction device as a single-junction system. A dye code + a dye code indicates as co-sensitized subcell, while dye code/dye code indicates two separate subcells in a DSC device. bIndicates an iodine electrolyte was used. cIndicates a cobalt-based electrolyte was used. dMaximum value observed among 65 devices Fig. 5 Dyes used in DSC-based devices Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: A Brief Historical Perspective  91 this strategy does allow for the overcoming of practical limitations leading to record setting performances. Delcamp, Cheema, and Rodrigues have recently pioneered the use of varied optical gap dyes in multijunction systems with more than two subcells with a focus on dividing photons between subcells according to energetic value in addition to photon ﬂux distribution (Table 1, entries 714) [1921]. Such a system wired in series (termed: sequential series multijunction dye-sensitized solar cell, or SSM- DSC) can lead to an overall higher theoretical maximum PCE relative to strategies focused on photon ﬂux aiming to sum photocurrent values (parallel wiring) when only photons higher in energy than the ShockleyQueisser limit are used (Fig. 1). This increase in PCE from a multijunction series system can be obtained since each of the front subcells can produce a higher photovoltage than the narrow optical gap materials below. A parallel wired system in this spectral region would use the same number of photons to generate current but would limit the photovoltage to that of the lowest photovoltage system resulting in substantial thermal losses from high energy photons. For an overall high-performance series system, the photocurrent between each subcell must be evenly matched to avoid current bottlenecking at a particular subcell leading to thermal losses. One of the foremost limitations to this strategy presently is the lack of a dye and redox shuttle pair that can produce photovoltages near the value of the photons being used in the shorter wavelength ranges. As an example, photons at 500 nm have 2.5 eV of energy, yet the highest photovoltage DSC device to date provides 1.5 V which is co-record holding with PSCs when this value is compared across solar cells in general [28, 29]. Unfortunately, this 1.0 V loss severely limits this approach from showing dramatic improvements in efﬁciency for overall record numbers in the DSC ﬁeld; however, the initial proof-of-concept studies have been informative and promising. The initial report shows that by using between 2 and 5 subcells, exceptional photovoltages can be obtained for the series wired devices, and that photon ﬂux to each subcell can be regulated by selecting dyes with complementary optical gaps, controlling optical layer thicknesses, and using dyes of varied molar absorptivities (Table 1, entries 79) [19]. The original report on the sequential series multijunction SSM-DSC strategy shows that photovoltages ranging from 1.9 V for a two-subcell SSM-DSC to 4.7 V for a ﬁve-subcell SSM-DSC device could be obtained (Table 1, entries 7 and 9). PCEs were found to increase from 7.1% with a two-subcell device to 7.7% for a three-subcell device, which illustrates the value in moving toward 2 junction systems. The increase in PCE for the three- subcell system was made possible by a careful balancing of photocurrent between two organic D-π-A dyes (D35 and Y123) and a ruthenium-based dye, HD-2-mono (Table 1, entries 78). Up to ﬁve-subcell multijunction devices were demonstrated with a PCE of 4.3% obtained (Table 1, entry 9). This drop in PCE as more subcells are incorporated is likely due to light losses as photons change mediums through and between each subcell. Notably, this approach allows for the direct powering of photovoltaic driven electrochemical cells (PV-ECs). PV-EC systems require a threshold voltage to be obtained before catalysis can start. In the original report of on the SSM-DSC approach, both water splitting and CO2 reduction coupled to water oxidation are demonstrated with solar-to-fuel conversion efﬁciencies of 3% with a 92 A. Daniel and J. H. Delcamp 3 subcell SSM-DSC device. This is a signiﬁcant step forward for DSCs in that for the ﬁrst time these two processes were deﬁnitively shown with observed O2 output using only DSC devices. Two later iterations of this SSM-DSC approach were recently shown focusing on improving the photovoltage output of the top subcell by using a high voltage dye (RR9) and a relatively positive oxidation potential redox shuttle, Fe(bpy)33+/2+, for a 1.4 V front subcell (Table 1, entries 1012) [20]. This gives a SSM-DSC device at 3.3 V (a record for a three-subcell system); however, the photocurrent was limited due in part to the strong absorption of Fe(bpy)33+/2+ in the front subcell which limits the overall PCE of the system to 3.5%. In this system, a gradient of photon absorber wavelengths (RR9  D35  Y123) was demonstrated to provide a higher photocurrent than a system using the same absorber twice (RR9  Y123  Y123). This illustrates a key feature of higher order multijunction systems, which requires chromophore development in each spectral region for maximal performance (Fig. 2). Despite the low PCE for these devices, the SSM-DSC device illustrates that if photovoltages can be obtained near the maximum for a particular spectral region then the theoretical limit of a single DSC device can be overcome since the photovoltages were observed to be summed with no notable limits observed. Additionally, these systems are relatively low photocurrent (typically  5 mA/cm2) which alleviates any concerns about mass transport issues in the solar cell electrolyte while maintaining high performances [3034]. Most recently, a 10% PCE has been demonstrated using athree-subcellapproachwithbroadlyabsorbingrutheniumdye B11,inadditiontothe use of anti-reﬂective coatings and an immersion oil between the subcell layers to limit light losses in the system (Table 1, entries 1314) [21]. The anti-reﬂective coating and immersion oil use is particularly important to mechanically stacked SSM-DSCs since these devices have several solvent-glass-air interfaces where light can be reﬂected or diffracted. The three-subcell device gives a 6% solar-to-fuel conversion directly from the SSM-DSC device with no added bias for CO2 conversion in a PV-EC system. This is possible since a high photovoltage of 2.3 V is obtained which can power low overpotential electrocatalysts. Additionally, the ﬁve-subcell system was found to be improved with the light guiding anti-reﬂective coating CYTOP to give a 6.7% PCE device compared to the prior 4.3% record device. 4 DSC/OPV Multijunction Systems In general, OPV-based approaches to solar cells are able to more easily access near- infrared absorbing systems than DSC devices due to less strict energy level align- ments being required since a wide range of molecular acceptors are possible in OPV relative to TiO2 traditionally in DSCs. Early research on organic DSC dyes often resulted in chromophores absorbing until about 600 nm with rare exceptions past 700 nm. Thus, pairing a top DSC subcell with a bottom OPV subcell could provide a high photovoltage from the DSC subcell for shorter wavelength photons with signif- icant photocurrent from the OPV subcell. The use of D102 in a DSC subcell with a Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: A Brief Historical Perspective  93 zinc phthalocyanine dye in an OPV subcell led to an overall increase in PCE for the tandem device relative to either single device (6.0% versus 4.2%, Table 1, entries 1517) [22]. The tandem device was constructed in a monolithic fashion (Fig. 4), with a silver layer separating the DSC and OPV subcells. This leads to a series connection by default. The active layer thicknesses were controlled to balance the photocurrent in each subcell leading to a good ﬁll factor (FF) and the summing of the subcell photovoltages with the DSC device providing a signiﬁcant photovoltage enhancement over the OPV device. This approach highlights the strengths of the two ﬁelds in synergistically bringing together low bandgap and high voltage subcells to form an overall more efﬁcient device. 5 DSC/PSC Multijunction Systems PSCs are exceptional for single cell systems with a band gap onset of 800 nm and minimal overpotential losses for the highest performance systems. In general, the devices can give 1.0 V open-circuit photovoltages and 24% PCE. While there are some DSC devices with 1.0 V in the literature which could be used as a front subcell for a tandem device with a PSC back subcell, these DSC devices are rare. An initial report makes use of a DSC/PSC multijunction system employing a relatively low photovoltage PSC at 0.62 V, which is used as the bottom subcell in a tandem system with a N719 DSC as the top subcell (Table 1, entry 19). The use of a DSC (N719 dye)/PSC parallel wired multijunction system led to a high photocurrent of 29 mA/cm2 which is near the theoretical limit possible for materials with onset incident photon-to-current conversion efﬁciencies (IPCEs) of 800 nm (Table 1, entries 1820). This system shows very few photon losses; however, the overall PCE relative to DSC devices alone is nearly identical at 11%. This is likely due to the use of two similar optical gap materials, and the use of a higher voltage system (i.e., a wider bandgap DSC) with a series wiring could boost this performance with photons being equally distributed across the subcells [23]. Given the relatively less tunable band gap of the PSC device, opportunities exist for the pairing of a narrow band gap DSC device with a PSC device as the top subcell. For this to occur, a narrow band gap dye is required, and the invention of DX3, which produces electricity until 1000 nm, fulﬁlled this requirement [24]. This high current DSC dye was shown to give 30 mA/cm2 of photocurrent (a ﬁeld record, Table 1, entry 21). The DSC subcell was wired to the PSC subcell via a series connection to sum the photovoltages (0.56 V and 1.12 V, respectively), and a dichroic mirror was used to divide the solar spectrum such that optical transparency of the top active layer subcell is not a concern (Fig. 4). Through this approach a PCE of 21.5% is obtained for the tandem system (Table 1, entry 23), which is higher than that of the DSC device or PSC device separately at 10.2% and 18.4%, respectively (Table 1, entries 2123). This example highlights the importance of designing NIR chromophores for DSC 94 A. Daniel and J. H. Delcamp devices as their application in relatively high photovoltage systems can complement the absorption spectrum of high efﬁciency perovskite active layers to synergistically raise the overall multijunction device efﬁciency. 6 DSC/CIGS Multijunction Systems DSCs have also been used as top subcells of multijunction devices with CIGS as the bottom subcell (Table 1, entries 2431) [25, 26]. In one approach, the DSC is the wide optical gap absorber using dye Y123 while the CIGS is the narrow optical gap absorber [25]. A rare monolithic design was used to integrate the CIGS and DSC into a device with no airsolid interfaces within the multijunction device. By default, this system is series connected internally which leads to a summing of photovoltages with the photocurrent limited by the lowest current subcell. CIGS have very high photocurrents in relation to DSCs and very low photovoltages. In this setup, the DSC was current limiting at 9 mA/cm2 regardless of electrolyte choice (Table 1, entries 2425), which is substantially below the 27 mA/cm2 obtained with the CIGS device alone or 15 mA/cm2 with a DSC ﬁltered measurement (Table 1, entry 26). This dramatically reduced the photocurrent of the tandem system relative to the single CIGS system leading to a drop of PCE from 9% to  7% with relation to the non-tandem CIGS cell (Table 1, entries 2628). The DSC does provide a larger photovoltage (850 mV) relative to that of the CIGS device (500 mV) which does offset some of the current losses. Ideally, the photocurrent could be divided among three subcells (2 DSC + 1 CIGS) to allow each subcell to generate 9 mA/cm2 of photocurrent with summed photovoltages. This would dramatically increase the performance of the multijunction device, but the intermediate subcell needed would have to efﬁciently utilize photons beyond 550 nm in order to provide 9 mA/cm2 after the top cell ﬁlters photons. This would require an efﬁcient NIR dye of which there are few of in DSC literature extending beyond 800 nm [17]. However, a critical advance of this work was the demonstration of a multijunction device with very high durability which was demonstrated to last 1000 h under continuous irradiation with negligible PCE loss. In a prior example using DSC and CIGS in a mechanically stacked conﬁguration, a metal-based dye (N719) was used in the DSC subcell which better divides the photocurrent between the DSC and CIGS due to the broader IPCE of N719 relative to Y123 [26]. In this system, the DSC still remains current limiting at about 14 mA/cm2 (Table 1, entry 29). However, this is very closely matched to half the photocurrent of the CIGS system at about 15 mA/cm2 (Table 1, entry 30). Combining these two systems together with a series connection gives a photocurrent of 14 mA/cm2 for the tandem system with a summed photovoltage of 1.44 V and a PCE of 12.4% (Table 1, entry 31). This PCE is higher than that of either individual subcells with the DSC at 7.9% or the CIGS at 11.7%. This example demonstrates the synergistic use of both a classically broad absorbing inorganic solar cell and a DSC which have specialized performances in different spectral regions. Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: A Brief Historical Perspective  95 7 DSC/Silicon Multijunction Systems A DSC subcell has also been monolithically combined with a silicon subcell to give a series connected multijunction system with an 18.1% PCE [27] which is a signiﬁcant improvement in PCE relative to earlier work with DSCs and silicon subcells (Table 1, entries 3234) [35]. This PCE is also signiﬁcantly higher than either individual device, with the individual DSC device giving a PCE of 11.4% and the silicon device reaching up to 13.2% PCE (Table 1, entries 3233). This large gain in PCE is possible due to the higher voltage supplied by the DSC subcell as the top device which reduces thermal waste from the broader absorbing silicon subcell. The photocurrent in this system is very well balanced at approximately 18 mA/cm2 through each subcell. This is a very high photocurrent in a DSC device with a good photovoltage made possible through the invention of the broadly absorbing porphyrin dye SGT-021. This is an excellent example of the potential of a multijunction strategy if materials with well-matched energetics are chosen. A further subdividing of the solar spectrum is certainly possible for large multijunction systems which could further reduce thermal losses and increase PCEs further if the solar spectrum can be well divided among the subcells. This result compares favorably to the use of PSCs or OPVs with inorganic solar cells based on CIGS and a-Si (amorphous silicon) as well as to DSC devices using GaAs [27, 36]. 8 Conclusions In the sections above, multijunction systems using DSC subcells with DSCs, OPVs, PSCs, CIGSs, and silicon solar cells were presented and discussed. Examples using GaAs are present in the literature as well, which face a similar set of challenges to the PSC subcell systems in that the DSCs used in these systems need either a very high voltage DSC dye for short wavelength photons to contribute productively or a narrow bandgap DSC dye to collect substantial photons beyond 800 nm in order to balance the photocurrent in each device for a synergistic system. This is because both PSCs and GaAs systems use chromophores with IPCE onsets at 800850 nm with good photovoltages in this region. These technologies are exceptional in this region, and DSCs have a high tunability that can be used to pair with these technologies when matched chromophores are invented. The use of DSCs with varying technologies is summarized below in Table 2 along with a few notable examples from the other two solution processable technologies for comparison with a PSC/CIGS and a OPV/Si system. The DSC systems with broad absorbers relative to common DSC dyes have shown the best performances using porphyrin and ruthenium dye-based subcells (Table 2, entries 1, 3, 4, and 6). Substan- tial improvements remain possible for even broader absorbing DSC chromophores in these systems especially with respect to PSC and GaAs subcells (Table 2, entries 3 and 5). However, an under-utilized approach relies on the invention of DSC dyes 96 A. Daniel and J. H. Delcamp Table 2 Comparing notable solar cell efﬁciencies for multijunction systems using at least one solution processable technology (PSC, OPV, DSC) with an inorganic subcell Entry Device PCE (%) 1 [16] SGT-137 + HC-A1/SGT-021 + HC-A4 14.6 2 [22] D102/OPV 6.0 3 [24] DX3/PSC 21.5 4 [26] N719/CIGS 12.4 5 [36] D131/GaAs 7.6 6 [27] SGT-021/c-Si (crystalline silicon) 18.1 7 [27] PSC/CIGS 7.7 8 [27] a-Si/OPV (triple) 13.2 9 [27] a-Si/OPV 11.6 which can effectively use early photons to give maximal photovoltage outputs which can pair with all of the existing technologies to minimize thermal losses and boost multijunctiondevicePCEsdramatically.Thisareaofresearchisrelativelyyoungwith encouraging results already [20, 29, 3745]. Despite the absence of this key compo- nenttofuturemultijunctiondevicedesigns,DSCscomparefavorablytomultijunction device attempts using PSCs and OPV with inorganic non-solution processable solar cell technologies (Table 2, entries 79). This is in part due to the high photovoltages commonly observed with DSCs relative to other solar cell technologies as well as the ability to fabricate transmissive DSC devices. Additionally, DSCs operate uniquely efﬁcient under low photon ﬂux conditions relative to many technologies. Acknowledgements That authors acknowledge support from the Department of Energy Basic Energy Sciences program for grant DE-SC0019131 which supported background literature research with relation to the high-voltage systems reported herein. The authors also acknowledge support from the National Science Foundation for grant 1954922 which supported background literature research with relation to the narrow energy gap systems reported herein. References 1. Saygili Y, Stojanovic M, Flores-Díaz N et al (2019) Metal coordination complexes as redox mediators in regenerative dye-sensitized solar cells. Inorganics 7:30 2. Cole JM, Pepe G, Al Bahri OK et al (2019) Cosensitization in dye-sensitized solar cells. Chem Rev 119:72797327 3. Ji J-M, Zhou H, Kim HK (2018) Rational design criteria for d-π-a structured organic and porphyrin sensitizers for highly efﬁcient dye-sensitized solar cells. J Mater Chem a 6:14518 14545 4. Polman A, Knight M, Garnett EC et al (2016) Photovoltaic materials: Present efﬁciencies and future challenges. Science 352:307 5. Wu Y, Zhu WH, Zakeeruddin SM et al (2015) Insight into D-A-π-A structured sensitizers: a promising route to highly efﬁcient and stable dye-sensitized solar cells. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 7:93079318 Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: A Brief Historical Perspective  97 6. Hagfeldt A, Boschloo G, Sun L et al (2010) Dye-sensitized solar cells. Chem Rev 110:6595 6663 7. Mishra A, Fischer MK, Bauerle P (2009) Metal-free organic dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells: from structure: property relationships to design rules. Angew Chem Int Ed 48:24742499 8. Freitag M, Teuscher J, Saygili Y et al (2017) Dye-sensitized solar cells for efﬁcient power generation under ambient lighting. Nat Photon 11:372378 9. Fakharuddin A, Jose R, Brown TM et al (2014) A perspective on the production of dye- sensitized solar modules. Energy Environ Sci 7:39523981 10. Bella F, Gerbaldi C, Barolo C et al (2015) Aqueous dye-sensitized solar cells. Chem Soc Rev 44:34313473 11. Wang P, Yang L, Wu H et al (2018) Stable and efﬁcient organic dye-sensitized solar cell based on ionic liquid electrolyte. Joule 2:21452153 12. Peddapuram A, Cheema H, Adams RE et al (2017) A stable panchromatic green dual acceptor, dual donor organic dye for dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem C 121:87708780 13. Ren Y, Sun D, Cao Y et al (2018) A stable blue photosensitizer for color palette of dye-sensitized solar cells reaching 12.6% efﬁciency. J Am Chem Soc 14. Zhang X, Xu Y, Giordano F et al (2016) Molecular engineering of potent sensitizers for very efﬁcient light harvesting in thin ﬁlm solid state dye sensitized solar cells. J Am Chem Soc 138:1074210745 15. Safdari M, Lohse PW, Häggman L et al (2016) Investigation of cobalt redox mediators and effects of TiO2 ﬁlm topology in dye-sensitized solar cells. RSC Adv 6:5658056588 16. Eom YK, Kang SH, Choi IT et al (2017) Signiﬁcant light absorption enhancement by a single heterocyclic unit change in the π-bridge moiety from thieno[3,2-b]benzothiophene to thieno[3,2-b]indole for high performance dye-sensitized and tandem solar cells. J Mater Chem A 5:22972308 17. Brogdon P, Cheema H, Delcamp JH (2018) Near-infrared-absorbing metal-free organic, porphyrin, and phthalocyanine sensitizers for panchromatic dye-sensitized solar cells. Chem- suschem 11:86103 18. Kang SH, Jeong MJ, Eom YK et al (2016) Porphyrin sensitizers with donor structural engi- neering for superior performance dye-sensitized solar cells and tandem solar cells for water splitting applications. Adv Energy Mater 7:1602117 19. Cheema H, Rodrigues RR, Delcamp JH (2017) Sequential series multijunction dye-sensitized solar cells (SSM-DSCs): 4.7 volts from a single illuminated area. Energy Environ Sci 10:1764 1769 20. Rodrigues RR, Cheema H, Delcamp JH (2018) A high voltage molecular engineered organic sensitizer-iron redox shuttle pair: 1.4 V DSC and 3.3 V SSM-DSC devices. Angew Chem Int Ed 57:54725476 21. Cheema H, Delcamp JH (2019) The role of antireﬂective coating cytop, immersion oil, and sensitizer selection in fabricating a 2.3 v, 10% power conversion efﬁciency SSM-DSC device. Adv Energy Mater 9:1900162 22. Bruder I, Karlsson M, Eickemeyer F et al (2009) Efﬁcient organic tandem cell combining a solid state dye-sensitized and a vacuum deposited bulk heterojunction solar cell. Solar Energy Mater Solar Cells 93:18961899 23. Vildanova MF, Nikolskaia AB, Kozlov SS et al (2018) Novel types of dye-sensitized and perovskite-based tandem solar cells with a common counter electrode. Tech Phys Lett 44:126 129 24. Kinoshita T, Nonomura K, Joong Jeon N et al (2015) Spectral splitting photovoltaics using perovskite and wideband dye-sensitized solar cells. Nat Commun 6:8834 25. Chae SY, Park SJ, Joo OS et al (2016) Highly stable tandem solar cell monolithically integrating dye-sensitized and cigs solar cells. Sci Rep 6:30868 26. Jeong W-S, Lee J-W, Jung S et al (2011) Evaluation of external quantum efﬁciency of a 12.35% tandem solar cell comprising dye-sensitized and cigs solar cells. Solar Energy Mater Solar Cells 95:34193423 98 A. Daniel and J. H. Delcamp 27. Kwon J, Im MJ, Kim CU et al (2016) Two-terminal DSSC/silicon tandem solar cells exceeding 18% efﬁciency. Energy Environ Sci 9:36573665 28. Liang Y, Wang Y, Mu C et al (2017) Achieving high open-circuit voltages up to 1.57 v in hole-transport-material-free MAPbBr3 solar cells with carbon electrodes. Adv Energy Mater 8:1701159 29. Kakiage K, Osada H, Aoyama Y et al (2016) Achievement of over 1.4 v photovoltage in a dye-sensitized solar cell by the application of a silyl-anchor coumarin dye. Sci Rep 6:35888 30. Kim BM, Han HG, Kim JS et al (2017) Control and monitoring of dye distribution in mesoporous TiO2 ﬁlm for improving photovoltaic performance. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 9:25722580 31. Gorlov M, Kloo L (2008) Ionic liquid electrolytes for dye-sensitized solar cells. Dalton Trans 26552666 32. Garcia-Rodriguez R, Jiang R, Canto-Aguilar EJ et al (2017) Improving the mass transport of copper-complex redox mediators in dye-sensitized solar cells by reducing the inter-electrode distance. Phys Chem Chem Phys 19:3213232142 33. Tsao HN, Burschka J, Yi C et al (2011) Inﬂuence of the interfacial charge-transfer resistance at the counter electrode in dye-sensitized solar cells employing cobalt redox shuttles. Energy Environ Sci 4:4921 34. Fan K, Li F, Wang L et al (2014) Pt-free tandem molecular photoelectrochemical cells for water splitting driven by visible light. Phys Chem Chem Phys 16:2523425240 35. Hao S, Wu J, Sun Z (2012) A hybrid tandem solar cell based on hydrogenated amorphous silicon and dye-sensitized TiO2 ﬁlm. Thin Solid Films 520:21022105 36. Ito S, Dharmadasa IM, Tolan GJ et al (2011) High-voltage (1.8v) tandem solar cell system using a GaAs/ALXGa(1x)as graded solar cell and dye-sensitised solar cells with organic dyes having different absorption spectra. Sol Energy 85:12201225 37. Ogunsolu OO, Murphy IA, Wang JC et al (2016) Energy and electron transfer cascade in self-assembled bilayer dye-sensitized solar cells. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 8:2863328640 38. Luo J, Wan Z, Jia C et al (2016) A co-sensitized approach to efﬁciently ﬁll the absorption valley, avoid dye aggregation and reduce the charge recombination. Electrochim Acta 215:506514 39. Hu Y, Abate A, Cao Y et al (2016) High absorption coefﬁcient cyclopentadithiophene donor- free dyes for liquid and solid-state dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem C 120:1502715034 40. Arora N, Orlandi S, Dar MI et al (2016) High open-circuit voltage: Fabrication of formami- dinium lead bromide perovskite solar cells using ﬂuorenedithiophene derivatives as hole- transporting materials. ACS Energy Lett 1:107112 41. Kakiage K, Tokutome T, Iwamoto S et al (2013) Fabrication of a dye-sensitized solar cell containing a mg-doped TiO2 electrode and a Br3(-)/Br-redox mediator with a high open-circuit photovoltage of 1.21 v. Chem Commun 49:179180 42. Yum JH, Baranoff E, Kessler F et al (2012) A cobalt complex redox shuttle for dye-sensitized solar cells with high open-circuit potentials. Nat Commun 3:631 43. Chou H-H, Hsu C-Y, Hsu Y-C et al (2012) Dipolar organic pyridyl dyes for dye-sensitized solar cell applications. Tetrahedron 68:767773 44. Ahmad S, Bessho T, Kessler F et al (2012) A new generation of platinum and iodine free efﬁcient dye-sensitized solar cells. Phys Chem Chem Phys 14:1063110639 45. Teng C, Yang X, Li S et al (2010) Tuning the homo energy levels of organic dyes for dye- sensitized solar cells based on Br-/Br3-electrolytes. Chem Eur J 16:1312713138 Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations in Hybrid OrganicInorganic Hetero Junction of Dye-Sensitized Solar Cell: Assessment of Excitonic Optical Properties Using the GW and BetheSalpeter Greens Function Formalisms Pabitra Narayan Samanta and Jerzy Leszczynski Abstract First-principles modeling of charge-neutral excitations with the recogni- tion of charge-transfer and Rydberg states and probing the mechanism of charge- carrier generation from the photoexcited electronhole pair for the hybrid organic inorganic photovoltaic materials remain as a cornerstone problem within the frame- work of time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) . The many-body Greens function BetheSalpeter formalism based on a Dyson-like equation for the two-particle correlation function, which accounts for the exchange and attrac- tive screened Coulomb interactions between photoexcited electrons and holes, has emerged as a decent approach to study the photoemission properties including the Frenkel and charge-transfer excitations in an assortment of ﬁnite and extended systems of optoelectronic materials. The key ideas of practical implementation of BetheSalpeter equation (BSE) involving the computations of single-particle states, quasi-particle energy levels, and the screened Coulomb interaction with the aid of Gaussian atomic basis sets and resolution-of-identity techniques are discussed. The work revisits the computational aspects for the evaluation of electronic, spec- troscopic, and photochromic properties of the dye-sensitized solar cell (DSSC) constituents by considering the excitonic effects that renormalize the energy levels and coalesce the single-particle transitions. The most recent advancements in theo- retical methods that employ the maximally localized Wanniers function (MLWF) and curtail the overall scaling of BSE calculations are also addressed, and the viable applications are subsequently illustrated with selected examples. Finally, the review P. N. Samanta  J. Leszczynski (B) Interdisciplinary Center for Nanotoxicity, Department of Chemistry, Physics and Atmospheric Sciences, Jackson State University, Jackson, MS 39217, USA e-mail: jerzy@icnanotox.org P. N. Samanta e-mail: pabitra.samanta@icnanotox.org  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021 J. K. Roy et al. (eds.), Development of Solar Cells, Challenges and Advances in Computational Chemistry and Physics 32, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-69445-6_5 99 100 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski reveals some computational challenges that need to be resolved to expand the applica- bility of BSE in designing solar cell materials, and to unravel the intricate mechanism of ultrafast excited-state processes. 1 Introduction To improve the quantum efﬁciency of dye-sensitized solar cell (DSSC) , it is funda- mentally important to comprehend the crucial electronic factors underpinning the electronic transitions mediated by photoinduced intramolecular (Frenkel) excitons that further transforms into charge-separated (CS) states via charge-transfer (CT) excitations [13]. To date, the time-dependent density functional theory (TDDFT) has been widely deployed to acquire the atomistic details of energy and charge- transfer processes in DSSC and proposed to be a reliable and efﬁcient approach in assessing photovoltaic performance of the photosensitizers [46]. However, for an accurate description of inter- and intramolecular CT excitations in concomi- tant with dissociation and diffusion dynamics of excitons, one has to cope with computational challenges emanating from the scarcity of long-range electronhole interactions that materializes owing to the exploitation of (semi) local exchange correlation (XC) kernels within the framework of TDDFT [710]. Stimulated by the quest for promising DSSC materials, the electrochemical and optical properties of the various donoracceptor based dye-semiconductor systems comprising organicinor- ganic hybrids have been evaluated by performing TDDFT computations in conjunc- tion with local, hybrid, and range-separated hybrid XC functional followed by solvent correction within polarizable continuum model [5, 1121]. Despite their success in reproducing optical spectra of the photosensitizers and deriving solar cell device performance parameters, radical issues arise in depicting Frenkel and CT excita- tions together at the chromophore-charge transport layer interface on the grounds of fundamentally different physicochemical properties of hybrid organicinorganic composites including dielectric, electronphonon interactions, spinorbit coupling, excitons as well as charge mobility [22, 23]. The efﬁciency of DSSC is primarily controlled by the kinetics of electron injection and charge recombination that depend upon the band alignment of the photosensitizer and the semiconductor as well as the redox potential of the electrolyte. Accordingly, it is indispensable to estimate the ground state oxidation (GSOP) and the excited-state oxidation potential (ESOP) of the dyes that are customarily approximated by the eigenvalues of the frontier molecular orbitals, viz. HOMO and LUMO energy levels of the dyes. Albeit, the evaluation of ESOP relies on the mode of electron injection that could be categorized as the transport of electrons to the semiconductor by dint of the unrelaxed excited state of the chromophore (i.e., the absorption maximum) and the relaxed form of the excited state (i.e., the emission maximum) [6]. Furthermore, the solar energy-to-electricity conversion efﬁciency of a DSSC is determined by the combined effects of several factors especially the short-circuit current densityJsc, the open-circuit voltageVoc, the ﬁll factor and the intensity of the incident light. The Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations  101 photocurrent density is strongly associated with the electron dynamics phenomena of the solar cell device under illumination and led by the optical gap of the dye molecule and the efﬁciency of charge-carrier generation from the photogenerated excitons. TheVoc, on the other hand, is determined by the quasi-Fermi level of the conduction band of the semiconductor and the redox potential of the electrolyte. Therefore, the understanding of quantum transport behavior of quasi-particles at nanoscale dye/semiconductor oxide (typically TiO2) interfaces through the estima- tion of energy levels of the ground and excited states of the DSSC materials, as well as both the charged and neutral excitations as required for the evaluation of band edges of the TiO2 and optical gap of the photosensitizer, respectively, are central to assess the robustness of the photosensitizers in the context of solar energy applications. In practice, the implementation of charged excitations followed by accounting excitonic effects, attributable to the two-body interactions between the excited electron-and-hole pair, is a formidable task within the framework of DFT [24]. Although the TDDFT provides superior accuracyfeasibility trade-offs compared to the wave function-based ab initio methods like MP2, CCSD(T) and ability to reckon the equilibrium and non-equilibrium solvation effect, vibronic couplings as well as the relativistic spinorbit effects in a cost-effective manner [2532], however, it fails to account Rydberg states and CT excitations for the sake of improper treatment of the asymptotic long-range exchange, and does not allow to capture double excitation character on the potential energy hypersurface [10, 3336]. In this regard, the so-called GW method [24, 3741], and the BetheSalpeter equation (BSE) formalism [4245], which are based on the many-body perturbation theory (MBPT) engaging perturbative expansion of the one-particle and two-particle (elec- tronhole) Greens functions, respectively, have been emerged as a viable approach to assess the charge-neutral excitations and estimate the quasi-particle (QP) energy levels in functional photochromes grafted on the surface of semiconductor [46 48], and simulate the optical spectra and excitons in donoracceptor complexes [49, 50]. For instance, by deploying the GW-BSE formalism for the donoracceptor- based complex comprising zinc-tetraphenylporphyrin (ZnTPP) and C70-fullerene, Duchemin and Blase [51] have identiﬁed the presence of several excitons lying between the lowermost intramolecular ZnTPP* donor excitation and the undermost charge-transfer (CT0) exciplex. The GW-BSE results also unveil that the hot elec- tronhole states possessing a hybrid intramolecular and charge-transfer character are resonant in energy with the ZnTPP* excitation, which in turn allows the transitions leading to the electronhole separation. In another study [52], many-body Greens function GW approximation has been demonstrated to be an effective strategy to esti- mate the relative energy levels alignment of the dye molecule and the photoanode material, enabling the computation of maximum attainable Vocfor a DSSC with the alteration of degree of polarity of the solvent molecules. Nonetheless, the introduc- tion of explicit solvent model during the estimation of optical absorption spectrum within the GW framework is suggested to be a tedious job due to the detrimental N 4 scaling with reference to the size of the system. Recently, to overcome the short- comings of state-of-the-art BSE approach in its planewave implementation, Umari 102 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski and co-workers [53] have implemented a suitable GW-BSE scheme based on maxi- mally localized Wanniers functions, allowing the reduction of overall scaling of the GW-BSE calculations from N 4 to N 3 for the estimation of excitonic eigenstates and optical absorption spectra of the nanostructures and the complex photovoltaic materials like photochrome-TiO2 interface. Herein, the fundamental principles and computational aspects for the estimation of QP energy levels in the DSSC functional materials followed by the simulation of optical spectra that incorporate the inﬂuence of screened electronhole interactions are discussed. This work also provides discussion of the recent developments in theo- retical methods and models for the GW-BSE calculations emphasizing on interfacial excited-state energetics in both ﬁnite and extended systems of hybrid organicinor- ganic DSSC constituents. The performance of the GW and BetheSalpeter methods in examining photoinduced charge-transfer processes is subsequently illustrated with examples focusing on donor-bridge-acceptor based organic chromophores. 2 Theoretical Framework The many-body perturbation theory GW approach, which is based on approximating the self-energy as  iGW, with G being the single-particle Greens function and W beingthescreenedCoulombpotential,allowsonetocalculatetheQPbandgapsfor a wide range of materials starting from bulk semiconductors, metals, and insulators to nano-wires, polymers, organic molecules as well as photovoltaic organicinorganic hybrids through the Gaussian-basis implementation of the GW formalism [40, 54 56]. The BSE, on the other hand, includes the electronhole interaction kernel and permits to incorporate the excitonic effects and compute the optical properties with enhanced accuracy for both the isolated and extended periodic systems. Instead of providing detailed programmatic implementations of the GW/BSE method and the mathematical derivations using functional derivative techniques or the Feynman diagrammatic language that are readily available in seminal articles or reviews [24, 57], the basic ideas behind the formulation of generalized eigenvalue problem within the framework of GW approximation and BetheSalpeter approach are subsequently discussed. 2.1 GW Formalism The key quantity in the many-body GW approach is the Greens function in lieu of charge density as considered in DFT. The one-particle time-ordered Greens function can be expressed as Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations  103 G  r, r, ω  =  i φi(r)φ i  r ω εi iη +  a φa(r)φ a  r ω εa + iη (1) where {εi, εa} refer to the exact charged excitation energies as determined by the direct and inverse photoemission spectroscopy. The virtual and occupied energy levels can be deﬁned as εa = E(N + 1, a) E(N, 0) and εi = E(N, 0)  E(N 1, i), respectively; where E(N + 1, a) designates the total energy of the (N + 1)-electron system in its ath quantum state, E(N 1, i) is the total energy of the (N 1)-electron system in its ith quantum state, and E(N, 0) corresponds to the ground-state energy of the N-electron system. In Eq. (1), η is a positive inﬁnites- imal that restricts the proper analytic properties of G in the complex energy plane. The {φi, φa} are entitled as Lehman amplitudes, and signify the extent of overlap between the wavefunctions corresponding to the N-electron ground state with one removed/added electron in (r) and the ith/ath excited states of the (N 1)/(N + 1) electron systems, respectively. The function G accounts all many-body effects incor- porating all interactions between the N-electrons and the supplemental electrons into the systems and satisﬁes the following Dyson equation G(1, 2) = G0(1, 2) + d34G0(1, 3)H XC(3, 4)G(4, 2) (2) where 1[= (r1, t1)] represents a spacetime coordinate, G0 corresponds to the independent-electron Greens function evaluated by substituting {εn, φn} in Eq. (1) by the independent-electron eigenstates  ε0 n, φ0 n  , i.e., the eigenstates of the one-electron operator  h  0 associated with the KohnSham (KS) eigenvalue equation of DFT. The H XC operator is called the self-energy operator and describes all the electron electron interactions involving Hartree, exchange and correlation counterparts. The self-energy  is a two-body operator that is identical to the exact exchange operator in HartreeFock (HF) theory, albeit the H XC is dynamical, i.e., energy-dependent, and is a functional of Greens function G, i.e., H XC = H XC(G), instead of a functional of electron density or density matrix as held in DFT and HF, respectively. The substitution of expression for G into the time Fourier transform of the Dyson equation gives rise to the well-known eigenvalue equation for the (photoemission) excitation energies, ˆh0φn(r) + drXC r, r; εn  φn(r) = εnφn(r) (3) where the exchangecorrelation self-energy XC is both non-local and energy depen- dent; and the Hamiltonian h  0 includes the kinetic, ionic, and classical Hartree operators. In the GW approximation, the XC is obtained by 104 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski XC r, r; E  = i 2π dωeiωηG  r, r; E + ω  W  r, r; ω  (4) where G and W refer to the one-particle time-ordered Greens function and the screened Coulomb potential: G  r, r; E  =  n φn(r)φ n  r E εn + iη  sgn(εn EF) (5) W  r, r; ω  = v  r, r + dr1dr2v(r, r1)χ0(r1, r2; ω)W  r2, r; ω  (6) where EF denotes the energy of the Fermi level, v  r, r  refers to the bare Coulomb potential, and χ0 is the independent-electron susceptibility represented by χ0  r, r; ω  =  i, j  fi f j  φ i (r)φ j(r)φ j  r φi  r εi ε j ω iη  sgn  εi ε j  (7) where  fi/j  correspond to the occupation numbers, the {εn, φn} eigenstates are typically KS eigenstates which are corrected by substituting the DFT exchange correlation potential with the GW self-energy contributions, εGW n = εK S n + φK S n | GW  εGW n  V XC|φK S n (8) In practice, the dynamical correlations are computed by deploying contour deformation technique without any plasmon-pole approximation, implementing the frequency integration along the imaginary axis accompanied by the estimations of the poles of the Greens function G  r, r ; E + ω  . The correlation contributions are given by GW C  r, r; E  =  n φn(r)φ n  r vn  r, r; E  (9) with interpolating  W= W v, and the Heavyside step function θ, vn  r, r; E  = W  r, r; εn E  [θ(E εn) θ(EF εn)]  +  0 dω π E εn (E εn)2 + ω2 W  r, r; iω  (10) Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations  105 The predicted εGW a/i eigenvalues and the screened Coulomb potential W can be considered as input variables for the BSE excitation energy computations. 2.2 BetheSalpeter Equation Within the BSE framework, the excitation energies are computed by accounting the poles of a generalized susceptibility χ(1234) = G(12)/V ext(34), where V ext(34) deﬁnes a non-local external perturbation. Substituting the Greens function G with Dyson Eq. (2) introduces the derivative  XC/G  that is comparable with the exchangecorrelation kernel within DFT. Representing the 4-point susceptibility L(r1, r2, r3, r4; ω) in the transition space between occupied and virtual  φi/a  one- body eigenstates allows to express the excitonic Hamiltonian in the two-body product basis φi(r)φ a  r  , and the excitation energies are obtained by solving the following generalized eigenvalue problem: A B BA Xλ Yλ = BSE λ Xλ Yλ (11) where BSE λ corresponds to the BSE excitation energies. Xλ refers to the components of the two-body electronhole ψλ(re, r h) over the φi(rh)φa(re) transition basis, whereas the de-excitation φi(re)φa(rh) components are represented by Yλ. The linear algebraic representation (Eq. 11) is reminiscent of Casidas equation of LR-TDDFT while possessing amended matrix elements. The ﬁrst diagonal block describes the resonant Hamiltonian that can be expressed as ABSE ai,bj = δabδi j  εGW a GW i    φa(r)φ i  r W  r, r φb(r)φ j  r + 2  φa(r)φi(r)v  r, r φ b  r φ j  r (12) where εGW a/i indicate the energy of the virtual/occupied molecular orbital obtained by GW approximation. The matrix elements ai|W|bjreckon the electronhole inter- action terms through the screened Coulomb potential W, while the matrix elements ai|bjaccount the exchange contribution term. The second diagonal block (A) in Eq. (11) considers the non-resonant contributions stemming from the unoccupied to occupied energy levels (de-excitation process). The off-diagonal B terms account the coupling between resonant and non-resonant transitions as well as incorporate a direct and an exchange term that can be evaluated from the resonant-block by swapping the (b, j) indexes. 106 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski 3 Applications 3.1 Estimation of Electronic Band Gap and Optical Spectra of DSSC Photoanode Material (TiO2) The ground and excited-state properties of two crystalline phases of TiO2, namely, rutile and anatase, have been explored to evaluate the adequacy of the quasi-particle GW approximation and the inclusion of exciton correlation effect via the BSE formalism as well as to interpret the photoemission spectroscopy experiments [58]. The structural relaxations of the rutile and anatase phases of TiO2 with space groups P42/mnm and I41/amd were performed using the PerdewWang exchangecorre- lation functional within the framework of density functional theory-local density approximation (DFT-LDA). In Fig. 1a and b, the electronic band structure of the rutile TiO2 obtained by DFT-LDA is compared with those calculated by using the one-shot GW (G0W0) where the self-energy is evaluated only once, and the quasi- particle self-consistent GW (QPscGW) method, respectively. The comparative study suggests that the valences bands are not signiﬁcantly perturbed by the quasi-particle energy correction, whereas the conduction bands are considerably shifted to higher energyonaccount of their quasi-particlecharacter andtheconsiderationof dynamical Fig. 1 a and b Band structure for TiO2 rutile: LDA in red dashed line, G0W0 and QPscGW in black full lines. [Reprinted with permission from Ref. 58 Copyright (2019) IOP Publishing] Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations  107 Fig. 2 a and b Band structure for TiO2 anatase: LDA in red dashed line, G0W0 and QPscGW in black full lines. [Reprinted with permission from Ref. 58 Copyright (2019) IOP Publishing] screened Coulomb interaction via the plasmon-pole approximation. The calculated direct band gaps at  and R points corresponding to the band structure of rutile TiO2 within the G0W0 and QPscGW formalisms are found to be 3.12 eV and 3.53 eV, respectively, which are in accordance with the experimental reference values 3.3  0.5 eV as determined by photoemission spectroscopy (PES) and inverse photoemis- sion spectroscopy (IPES) [59]. The DFT-LDA method yields a reduced band gap of 1.75 eV. Figure 2a and b demonstrates the upward and downward shifts of the valence and conduction bands of the anatase TiO2 due to the inclusion of G0W0 and QPscGW corrections to DFT-LDA, respectively. The estimated indirect band gap values considering the lowest level of the conduction band positioned at  point and the utmost point of the valence band existing along the X M branch are found to be 2.05, 3.92, and 4.18 eV, respectively, for the implementation of DFT-LDA, G0W0, and QPscGW formalisms. The calculated band gap values for the anatase phase corroborate well with the previous reported values of 3.683.90 eV obtained from experimental measurements [60, 61], and 3.734.05 eV predicted by employing GGA + G0W0 and HSE06 + G0W0 level of theory [62]. To elucidate the impact of dynamical exchangecorrelation effects of electronhole pairs, the computed dielec- tric function and optical absorption spectra of the anatase TiO2 employing the BSE- G0W0 method are further compared with those obtained from KS-DFT and G0W0 in conjunction with random phase approximation (RPA-KS, RPA-G0W0) as well as with the experimental spectra [63]. The calculated real and imaginary parts of the 108 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski Fig. 3 Optical dielectric function of TiO2 anatase [real part ϵ1(ω) and imaginary part ϵ2(ω)] a ϵ2(ω) b ϵ1(ω) spectra where the propagation of E perpendicular to c-axis, d ϵ2(ω) e ϵ1(ω) spectra, where the propagation of E is parallel to the c-axis, and c and f are the optical absorption spectra. [Reprinted with permission from Ref. 58 Copyright (2019) IOP Publishing] dielectric function with the RPA-KS reveal that the features of major peaks are well reproduced with respect to the experimental peaks, however, the peaks are redshifted owing to the typical issues stemming from the band gap underestimation within the KS-DFT, as displayed in Fig. 3a, b, d, and e. In case of RPA-G0W0, the simulated peaks are blueshifted relative to the experimental spectra due to the exclusion of screened Coulomb interaction even though the exchange repulsion between the elec- tron and hole is considered. The peak features corresponding to the dielectric function as well as the optical absorption spectra estimated by employing the BSE-G0W0 are in reasonable agreement with the experimental spectra especially for E parallel to the c-axis of the bulk anatase TiO2 lattice. 3.2 Calculations of Low-Lying Charge-Transfer Excitation Energies of Coumarin-based DSSC Photosensitizers The pertinence of GW/BSE formalisms to reckon the charge-transfer excitation ener- gies and the oscillator strengths have been assessed by Faber et al. [64] by computing singlet transition energies for the low-lying excited states of the coumarin-based Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations  109 Fig.4 Schematicillustrationofthestudiedcoumarin-baseddyes:a parentC343,bNKX-2388(cis), c NKX-2311 (cis), d NKX-2586 (cis), and e NKX-2677. Black, white, red, blue, and yellow atoms represent carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur, respectively. [Adapted with permission from Ref. 64 Copyright (2012) American Physical Society] donor-bridge-acceptor dye molecules as displayed in Fig. 4 and comparing the GW- BSE results with the earlier computational studies achieved by TDDFT and coupled- cluster (CC) calculations [12, 13]. Figure 5a delineates the variation of computed singlet excitation energies of the coumarin dyes obtained by TD-B3LYP, TD-LC- BLYP, and GW-BSE levels of theory against the coupled-cluster CC2 reference values. The mean absolute error (MAE) over the available data points for TD-B3LYP is estimated to be 0.2 eV as compared to the CC2 results. The deviation amounts to be as much as 0.48 eV for the NKX-2677 dye molecule even though the functional includes the 20% of exact exchange. The estimated excitation energies employing GW-BSE formalism corroborate well with the CC2 reference data, and the calcu- lated MAE is found to be 0.06 eV. The GW-BSE results are also in conformity with the data obtained by TDDFT deploying optimized range-separated hybrid (RSH) functionals [14]. The results acquired by TDDFT with LC-BLYP functional agree well with the CC2 data, with a MAE of 0.03 eV. Despite the illustrious correlation, the excitation energies substantially depend on the range-separation parameter μ in LC-BLYP functional which was deemed to be 0.17 a.u. for these systems regardless 110 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski Fig. 5 a Comparison of calculated lowest singlet excitation energies (in eV) as a function of the coupled-cluster CC2 reference values. The coumarins names are indicated by their number (removing the NKX preﬁx) with c standing for -cis and t for -trans; b Comparison of estimated oscillator strengths as a function of the GW-BSE excitation energies (eV). Results for the NKX- 2677 and NKX-2586 (s-cis) in the dashed box are reproduced in the upper-right inset. [Reprinted with permission from Ref. 64 Copyright (2012) American Physical Society] of the deviation from the original value (μ = 0.33) proposed by Iikura et al. [65]. Next, in Fig. 5b, the calculated oscillator strengths using BSE perturbation theory are compared to those obtained by CC2, RSH-BNL, and LC-BLYP methods against the BSE excitation energy. The oscillator strengths derived from BSE are in line with TD-LC-BLYP results, albeit the predicted values using both BSE and LC-BLYP are underestimated compared to the CC2 results. The deviation is highest for the NKX- 2677 dye molecule with a difference of 22% between the GW-BSE and CC2 values. The charge-transfer (CT) character of the lowest singlet excitations of the studied chromophores is signiﬁcantly inﬂuenced by the length of the π-conjugated bridge, as evident by the spatial distribution of electron and hole for the lowest singlet excited states of the C343 molecule and the longest NKX-2677 dye predicted by accounting the expectation value of the electron position operator over the two-body BSE excitonic wave function ψ(re, r h). Figure 6 portrays the isocontour plots of the spatial localization of electron and hole for the smallest and longest coumarin- based molecules. The average electronhole separation distance is calculated to be 3.2 Å in case of C343 molecule. The prominent CT character for the NKX-2677 dye with longest π-conjugated bridge is substantiated by the augmented electronhole separation distance of 4.6 Å. The robust light-harvesting efﬁciency of the longest NKX-2677 dye is further vindicated by the minimization of HOMO-LUMO quasi- particle energy gap and exciton binding energy computed by employing GW/BSE formalism. Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations  111 Fig. 6 Isocontour representation of the electron (yellow) and hole (light blue) probability distri- bution for the lowest singlet excited states of a C343 and b NKX-2677, respectively, as obtained within BSE. [Adapted with permission from Ref. 64 Copyright (2012) American Physical Society] 3.3 Estimation of Quasi-Particle Energy Levels in Organic Chromophores and Dye/Semiconductor Interfaces and Simulation of Photoelectron Spectroscopy of OrganicInorganic Hybrid The deviation of quasi-particle (QP) energy levels owing to the enhancement of the conjugation and the length of linker group have been evaluated for a series of DSSC dyes [66] comprising the same donor moiety [triphenylamine (TPA)] and the same anchor group (conjugated cyano-acrylic acid) as displayed in Fig. 7. The Fig. 7 Schematic representation of the triphenylamine (TPA)-based organic dyes. [Adapted with permission from Ref. 66 Copyright (2013) AIP Publishing] 112 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski Table 1 Computed vertical ionization potential (IP) and electron afﬁnity (EA) within the GW framework for the dyes: L0, L2, L3, and L4. [All the values are reproduced with permission from Ref. 66 Copyright (2013) AIP Publishing] Dye IP (eV) Eox (exp) (eV) EA (eV) L0 6.87 5.81 1.66 L2 6.48 5.57 2.31 L3 6.37 5.51 2.28 L4 6.21 5.45 2.21 vertical ionization potential (IP) and electron afﬁnity (EA) for each dye calculated from HOMO and LUMO QP energies within the framework of GW approxima- tion are represented in Table 1. The IP decreases with increasing the length of the conjugated moiety, and follows the similar trend as revealed by the experimental oxidation potentials (Eox), although the structural relaxation effect in solvent core environment has not been taken into account. The EA considerably increases from L0 to L2; however, the predicted EAs for L2L4 are not interrupted remarkedly due to the enlargement of conjugated anchor group. In order to examine the efﬁcacy and robustness of the GW-based calculations, the computed valence electronic density of states (DOS) spectra of L0 and L2 dyes are compared with the photoemission spectra conducted on thin ﬁlms of the respective dyes [67]. The calculated HOMO level with the GW method is found to be upshifted by about 0.4 eV on going from L0 to L2 (Table 1), which agrees well with the observed value of 0.2 eV measured by photoemission spectra for thin ﬁlms. The positions and the relative intensities of the three major peaks seeming in the electron photoemission spectra with energy values lying between 4 and 10 eV are almost retained in the electronic DOS spectra of L0 and L2, as delineated in Fig. 8. A computational model of photochrome-TiO2 was further introduced to unveil the kinetics of electron injection at the dye-semiconductor interface. The dye molecule L0 was subjected to adsorb onto the (101) surface of anatase TiO2 slab model comprising 24 TiO2 units, in a bidentate bridging mode. All the DFT computations were carried out by dint of Quantum ESPRESSO code [68] and employing norm- conserving pseudopotential for all the atoms involved except for the Ti, for which adapted pseudopotential aiding semi-core 3s and 3p orbitals as valence orbitals was implemented. The computed GW electronic band gap for the TiO2 (101) slab possessing two layers and a width of about 8 Bohr is found to be 4.31 eV which is 20% higher than the predicted GW band gap of 3.63 eV for the bulk anatase. Despite such overestimation due to the exploitation of simulation cells of restricted size, the position of the energy level of the valence band maximum (VBM), which appears at -8.3 eV, is in accordance with the experimentally measured values of -8.4 eV and -8.0 eV for the rutile TiO2 (110) surface [69, 70]. Moreover, due to the anchoring of L0 dye on the surface of anatase slab, the HOMO-LUMO energy gap of the pris- tine dye is lowered by about 1 eV. In Fig. 9, the calculated valence DOS for the L0 dye adsorbed on TiO2 surface is compared with the experimental photoelectron Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations  113 Fig. 8 Valence DOSs calculated with the GW approach (black) and experimental photoemission spectra (red) from Ref. 67 for L0 and L2. A Gaussian broadening of 0.25 eV has been used for the GW lines. [Reprinted with permission from Ref. 66 Copyright (2013) AIP Publishing] spectrum recorded for the adsorption of single monolayer of L0 molecules on the surface of nanostructured TiO2 [67]. The major features of the photoemission spec- trum are approximately recaptured through the GW valence DOS. The difference in line intensities between the experimental and theoretical spectra possibly emanates from the smaller penetration depth of the photoelectron spectroscopy as well as the limited size of the TiO2 slab model. The relative offset between the HOMO and the emission peak at about -9 eV is fairly captured within  0.5 eV. In another study, the relative alignment of the HOMO and LUMO of the dye molecule (L0) and the valence band maximum (VBM) and conduction band minimum (CBM) of the anatase TiO2 (101) slab owing to the co-adsorption of solvent molecules such as water and acetonitrile has been evaluated by Verdi and co-workers [52].Inboththesolvents,thelowestenergystructureoftheL0/TiO2 hybridcomposite derived from DFT calculations corresponds to a dissociated monodentate structure involving transfer of proton to a nearby surface oxygen, as portrayed in Fig. 10. The computed GW energy levels in dye/semiconductor interfaces using the GWL 114 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski Fig. 9 Computed valence DOS using the GW approximation for the L0 dye adsorbed on the TiO2 (101) surface (black), and experimental photoelectron spectrum (red) of L0 dyes sensitized on TiO2 taken from Ref. 67. The experimental spectrum has been aligned in order the HOMO level to match the theoretical one. [Adapted with permission from Ref. 66 Copyright (2013) AIP Publishing] Fig. 10 Schematic illustration of DSSC model structures: L0 dye adsorbed on the anatase TiO2 (101) surface in the presence of water (left) and acetonitrile (right) molecules. [Reprinted with permission from Ref. 52 Copyright (2014) American Physical Society] package of the Quantum ESPRESSO DFT code are displayed in Fig. 11. The quasi- particle energy levels are further compared to DFT-BLYP results. The calculated HOMOLUMO energy gaps of the dye with DFT-BLYP method remain unaltered in the presence of solvent molecules. With acetonitrile the HOMO and LUMO energy levels of the dye L0 are lowered by 0.1 eV and 0.2 eV, respectively. Figure 11 clearly Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations  115 Fig. 11 Calculated energy levels with respect to the vacuum of the L0 HOMO (blue bold) and LUMO (blue dashed) and VBM (red bold) and CBM (red dashed) of the TiO2 slab obtained from the DFT-BLYP and the GW method. The thin black line is a guide for the eye. [Reprinted with permission from Ref. 52 Copyright (2014) American Physical Society] demonstrates that the inclusion of many-body effects signiﬁcantly alters the elec- tronic energy levels of the photosensitizer. The estimated HOMOLUMO energy gaps of L0 within the GW formalism are found to decrease by 0.9 eV and 1.3 eV, respectively, due to the co-adsorption of water and acetonitrile solvent molecules. The substantial alteration of electronic energy levels in the presence of acetonitrile is mainly attributed to the dipole interaction with the solvent molecules as well as the enhanced polarizability of the medium. Similarly, for the TiO2 energy levels, a prominent upward shift of the CBM is observed due to the interaction of acetoni- trile molecules with the TiO2 surface, and this is in accordance with the previous theoretical and experimental studies [71, 72]. 3.4 Determination of Rate of Interfacial Electron Injection and Open-Circuit Voltage in DSSC The rate of electron injection was computed for the adsorption of L0 dye on the surface of TiO2 (101) slab employing the NewnsAnderson (NA) model [73, 74] 116 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski within the many-body Greens function GW formalism and compared with the result obtained by DFT-BLYP method, to elucidate the impact of hybridization between the adsorbate and the substrate states on the interfacial electron injection. The NA model provides the ability to evaluate the effects of adsorption on the sensitizer electronic levels especially by accounting the coupling between the conduction band (CB) of the semiconductor (TiO2) and the LUMO of the photosensitizer that is characterized in terms of energy shift relative to the free dye and the lifetime broadening ℏ. The LUMO energy of the adsorbed dye is expressed as the weighted average of the computed QP energies  εQP i , ELU MO(ads) =  i εQP i pi  i pi (13) where pi corresponds to the squared projection of the ith empty state of the adsorbed dye system over the LUMO of the free dye L0. After that the LUMO broadening is obtained by enumerating mean deviation of a Lorentzian distribution centred at ELU MO(ads) ℏ =  i pi|εi ELU MO(ads)|  i pi (14) Theelectrontransferlifetime,whichisequivalenttotheelectroninjectionlifetime, is estimated as τ( f s) = 658 (meV ) (15) The computed values of ℏ for the L0/TiO2 system using GW and DFT-BLYP methods are found to be 0.246 eV and 0.231 eV, respectively, yielding a shorter injection lifetime (2.67 fs) for the GW approach in contrast to the DFT-BLYP- derived result of electron transfer lifetime (2.85 fs). The obtained result with GW approximation is in accordance with the experimental ultrafast injection rates [75, 76]. The maximum limiting value of the open-circuit voltage V max oc for the dye/TiO2 model systems including single layer of co-adsorbed solvent molecules, e.g., water or acetonitrile was estimated by ignoring the recombination effects and accounting the difference between the electron quasi-Fermi level of the TiO2 and the redox potential of the electrolyte  I /I  3  [52]. The values of standard redox potential of the I /I  3 redox shuttle with reference to the normal hydrogen electrode (NHE) and vacuum in water and acetonitrile medium along with estimated values of CBM and V max oc within GW formalism are represented in Table 2. The calculated V max oc is in vicinity of the experimentally predicted values of open-circuit voltage for the DSSCs incorporating TiO2 as the semiconductor and I /I  3 as the electrolyte lying between 0.65 to 0.9 V in acetonitrile [77, 78]. Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations  117 Table 2 Calculated maximum attainable open-circuit voltage of the cell  V max oc  along with electrochemical properties for the co-adsorption of water and acetonitrile solvent molecules employing the GW approximation. [All the values are reproduced with permission from Ref. 52 Copyright (2014) American Physical Society] H2O CH3CN CBM (eV)  4.1a  3.6a E0 I/I 3  (V) 0.53b (4.97a) 0.31b (4.74a) V max oc (V) 0.9 1.1 aRelative to vacuum bRelative to NHE 3.5 Large-Scale GW-BSE Formulation for Evaluating Excitonic Energies and Optical Absorption Spectra of Dye/Semiconductor Systems in DSSC The perturbative GW/BSE scheme has been effectively exploited to estimate the quasi-particle energy levels in diverse organic chromophores and dye/semiconductor interfaces in DSSC, and the BSE formalism has been demonstrated to be an adequate approach in describing the intra- and inter-molecular charge-transfer (CT) excitations due to the non-local nature of the implemented screened Coulomb potential that couples the nonoverlapping electron and hole distributions. However, the practical implementation of the GW-BSE formalism in reckoning the excitonic effects in large organicinorganic hybrids, as often required for determining photoinduced charge- transfer mechanism in DSSC, is hindered by their N4 scaling needed for computing the complex dielectric function. To ease the computational constraints, Marsili et al. [53] have proposed an efﬁcient GW-BSE scheme based on maximally localized Wanniers function (MLWF) allowing considerably faster computations on large systems by minimizing the overall scaling from O  N 4 toO  N 3 . Within the TammDancoff approximation, focusing only on the singlet excitonic states, the Hamiltonian-like operator H eh that accounts electronhole interactions can be expressed as ˆH eh vc,vc = ˆDvc,vc + 2 ˆK x vc,vc + ˆK d vc,vc (16) where v and v  and c and c  indices go over the occupied and unoccupied single- particle states, respectively. D  , K x, and K d refer to the diagonal, electronhole exchange, and direct screened Coulomb operators, respectively. Now, within the framework of second quantization, a generic excited state in the TammDancoff approximation can be represented as |=  vc Avc ˆav ˆa c | ψ0  (17) 118 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski Where ˆai and ˆa i correspond to the annihilation and creation operators for the ith state, and |ψ0 is the ground state wave function. The operators in Eq. (16) can be expressed in the Avc representation as follows: Dvc,vc = (εc εv)δvvδcc (18) where εc and εv are the eigenvalues of the quasi-particle Hamiltonian H qp. K x vc,vc = ψv(r)ψc(r)v  r, r ψv r ψc r drdr (19) and K d vc,vc = ψc(r)ψc(r)W  r, r ψv r ψv  r drdr (20) where v and W refer to the bare and static screened Coulomb operators, respectively. The explicit computation of unoccupied single-particle states can be elimi- nated by deploying density functional perturbation theory (DFPT)-based approach and expressing the excitonic states in terms of single-particle functions ξv(r) =  c Avcψc(r) such that |=  drdr ˆψ(r) ˆψ r   r, r ψ0  (21) with   r, r =  v ψv(r)ξv  r (22) where ˆψ and ˆψ denote the creation and annihilation ﬁeld operators. Now, the action of the operators deﬁned in Eq. (16) to a generic excitonic state can be written as  ξ  v  = ˆD|{ξv},  ξ  v  = ˆK x v,v|{ξv}, and  ξ  v  = ˆK d v,v|{ξv}with ξ  v(r) =  H qp εvI ξv(r) (23) ξ  v (r) = drPc(r, r)ψv(r)  v[drv(r, r)ψv(r)ξv(r)] (24) ξ  v (r) = drPc(r, r)  v ξv(r)[drW(r, r)ψv(r)ψv(r)] (25) where the operator Pc has been introduced for projections onto the manifold of unoccupied one-body states: Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations  119 Pc  r, r  =  c ψc(r)ψc  r  = δ  r r    v ψv(r)ψv  r  (26) A further improvement to overall scaling is achieved by computing ξ  vv in real space utilizing MLWF representation {wv} of the excitonic state such that ξ  v (r) = drPc(r, r)  v ξv(r)[drW(r, r)wv(r)wv(r)] (27) with  ξ v(r) =  v Uvv ξv(r) (28) where U is a unitary matrix. By excluding the explicit calculations of nonoverlapping pairs of Wanniers function, and introducing a threshold s for which a given pair of Wanniers function can overlap,  |wv(r)|2wv (r) 2dr  s (29) it is possible to reduce the scaling of computation of ξ  v from O(N 4) to O(N 3). To assess the efﬁcacy of GW-BSE formalism based on MLWF, the optical absorp- tion spectrum and ionization potentials were estimated for a large DSSC model comprising an organic photosensitizer JK2 [3-{5-[N,N-bis(9,9-dimethylﬂuorene-2- yl)phenyl]-2,2-bisthiophene-5-yl}-2-cyano-acrylic acid] adsorbed on the surface of an anatase TiO2 cluster. The unsymmetrical JK2 sensitizer encompasses the bis- dimethylﬂuoreneaniline moiety as the electron donor unit, the cyano-acrylic acid moiety as the acceptor unit, and the thiophene moieties as the bridging unit making conjugation between the donor and the anchoring groups. The dimethylﬂuoreneani- line moiety prevents degradation upon exposure to light and high temperature and suppresses dye aggregation. The model of TiO2 cluster includes 32 TiO2 units producing 204 atoms and 1174 valence electrons. For the estimation of GW-BSE energy levels with higher accuracy, the polarizability operators were expanded on an optimal basis set involving 2500 vectors. The optical absorption spectrum was calculated by varying the thresholds, viz. 500, 50, and 10 Bohr3 yielding 2295, 7653, and 12,711 total number of Wanniers function products, respectively. The computed optical gap using s = 500 is found to be 2.40 eV, which is very close to 120 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski the predicted value of 2.47 eV usings = 10, as manifested by the position of the ﬁrst peak corresponding to the simulated optical absorption spectra. The simulated optical absorption spectra for the JK2 photosensitizer adsorbed on TiO2 cluster are depicted in Fig. 12. The GW-BSE spectra display a lowest energy absorption band at 2.5 eV, which is in decent agreement with the experimental value of 2.6 eV [79]. The inception of light absorption in the experimental ultraviolet-visible (UV-vis) spectrum appears at 1.9 eV which is retained well in the GW-BSE spectra of the JK2-TiO2 composite. The second lowest energy absorption band centred at 3.2 eV in the simulated spectra is in conformity with the experimental UV-vis spectrum of the isolated JK2 dye [80]. In Table 3, the estimated groundstate dye ionization potential  D/D+ , excited-state dye ionization potential  D/D+ , CBM of TiO2, Fig. 12 Simulated optical absorption spectra for the adsorption of JK2 dye on the TiO2 surface within the framework of GW-BSE formalism with s = 10 Bohr3 (black), s = 50 Bohr3 (blue), and s = 500 Bohr3 (red). A Lorentzian broadening of 0.1 eV has been applied. [Reprinted with permission from Ref. 53 Copyright (2017) American Physical Society] Table 3 Computed energy values of the estimated ground state dye ionization potential  D/D+ , excited-state dye ionization potential  D/D+ , CBM of TiO2, and optical gap  Eg  of the JK2- TiO2 complex using the GW-BSE formalism. The GW-BSE values in parentheses include the solvent effects. The experimental values are obtained from Ref. 80. [All the values are reproduced with permission from Ref. 53 Copyright (2017) American Physical Society] Expt. (eV) GW-BSE (eV) D/D+ 5.4 5.9 (5.8) D/D+ 3.5 3.9 (3.8) CBM 4.0 4.3 (4.1) E g 2.6 2.5 (2.5) Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations  121 and optical gap  Eg  of the JK2-TiO2 complex are further compared with the exper- imental data. Except the value ofEg, all the values are shifted by about -0.4 eV. The deviation further reduces to -0.3 eV upon solvation correction, as revealed by the data shown in parentheses. The solvent effect was included by exploiting implicit solvent model within the DFT formalism. 4 Summary and Outlook The quantitative assessment for the effectiveness of photovoltaic materials relies on the delicate analysis of the electronic states involving charge and energy transfer, as well as exciton dissociation and charge recombination. In the present study, we have epitomized recent achievements emphasizing on reckoning the intra- and intermolec- ular charge-transfer excitations and the localized (Frenkel) excitons in modeling the photochrome-TiO2 interface associated with the solar energy-to-electricity conver- sion efﬁciency of a DSSC. In contrast to the TDDFT method that commonly shows strong dependence on exchangecorrelation functional in reproducing experimental optical absorption spectra, the many-body Greens function GW-BSE approach allows one to account Rydberg states and chargetransfer excitations as well as simulate optical spectra more accurately due to the inclusion of exchange and attrac- tive screened Coulomb interactions between the electrons and holes produced upon photoexcitation. The computational cost of the BSE formalism based on standard Gaussian atomic basis sets and resolution-of-identity techniques as implemented in several quantum chemistry codes such as Turbomole [81], CP2K [82], and Fiesta [49, 83, 84] is comparable to TDDFT in the alleged Casidas formulation. The exploitation of a full frequency GW algorithm in a Gaussian-type basis enables the computations of quasi-particle energies for the larger systems with thousands of atoms including molecules and nanostructures in the gas, liquid, or condensed phase [85]. The latest formulation of BSE with the aid of maximally localized Wanniers function presents a very good compromise between computer cost and accuracy by eliminating the explicit computations of summations over the empty state manifold as well as the screened Coulomb interaction W matrix. As evident by the predicted spectroscopic and photochromic properties of prototypical donor-bridge-acceptor organic dyes adsorbed on semiconductor oxide (TiO2) , the GW-BSE formalism is demonstrated to be a competent ﬁrst-principles approach for determining crucial factors responsible for charge injection and recombination processes through the evaluation of optical gap of the photosensitizer followed by accounting energy shift of the TiO2 bands with the alterations of size of the linker groups and the dipole layer induced by co-adsorbed solvent molecules on the TiO2 surface. The estimated DSSC device performance parameter such as the open-circuit voltage Voc within the GW approximation is found to correlate well with the experimental data. The implementation of GW approximation for the estimation of ultrafast injection rate at the photochrome-TiO2 interface using the NewnsAnderson model does not give rise to a considerable change compared to the DFT-BLYP result, even though the 122 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski band gaps are substantially underestimated by the DFT-BLYP method with refer- ence to the experimental data. Despite the feasibility of the GW-BSE formulation in reproducing the experimental photo-electron spectroscopic and electrochemical data of the photochromes, the calculated indirect and direct band gaps with the GW approximation for the anatase and rutile phases of TiO2 are deviated to some extent compared to the experimental measurements, which is probably attributed to the eradication of vertex correction for the irreducible polarization function [86]. Albeit the state-of-the-art BetheSalpeter formalism is manifested to be a decent method to probe photovoltaic materials with weak dielectric screening and strongly bound excitons, there is still plenty of work that needs to be done to assess the efﬁcacy of solar cell materials which are characterized by strong coupling between electronic and vibrational degrees of freedom, and to estimate the rates of radiative and nonra- diative transitions in which the states are coupled by spin orbit coupling (SOC) or inﬂuenced by nonadiabatic and spin orbit coupling simultaneously. Delving and recognizing these effects in intricate hybrid organicinorganic solar cell materials necessitate further improvement of the theoretical models within the many-body perturbation theory approach, which can reinforce the experimental interpretation. Acknowledgements This work has been supported by the Department of Energy (Grant number: DE-SC0018322) and the NSF EPSCoR (Grant number: OIA-1757220). References 1. Salafsky JS (1999) Exciton dissociation, charge transport, and recombination in ultrathin, conjugated polymer-TiO2 nanocrystal intermixed composites. Phys Rev B 59(16):10885 2. Yu Q, Wang Y, Yi Z, Zu N, Zhang J, Zhang M, Wang P (2010) High-efﬁciency dye-sensitized solar cells: the inﬂuence of lithium ions on exciton dissociation, charge recombination, and surface states. ACS Nano 4(10):60326038 3. Brauer JC, Marchioro A, Paraecattil AA, Oskouei AA, Moser JE (2015) Dynamics of interfacial charge transfer states and carriers separation in dye-sensitized solar cells: a time-resolved terahertz spectroscopy Study. J Phys Chem C 119(47):2626626274 4. Pastore M, Mosconi E, Angelis FD, Grätzel M (2010) A Computational investigation of organic dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells: benchmark, strategies, and open issues. J Phys Chem C 114(15):72057212 5. Bernini C, Zani L, Calamante M, Reginato G, Mordini A, Taddei M, Basosi R, Sinicropi A (2014) Excited state geometries and vertical emission energies of solvated dyes for DSSC: a PCM/TD-DFT benchmark Study. J Chem Theory Comput 10(9):39253933 6. Samanta PN, Majumdar D, Roszak S, Leszczynski J (2020) First-principles approach for assessing cold electron injection efﬁciency of dye-sensitized solar cell: elucidation of mechanism of charge injection and recombination. J Phys Chem C 124(5):28172836 7. Casida ME (2009) Time-dependent density-functional theory for molecules and molecular solids. J Mol Struct (THEOCHEM) 914(13):318 8. Botti S, Sottile F, Vast N, Olevano V, Reining L, Weissker H-C, Rubio A, Onida G, Sole RD, Godby RW (2004) Long-range contribution to the exchange-correlation kernel of time- dependent density functional theory. Phys Rev B 69(15):155112 Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations  123 9. Sottile F, Marsili M, Olevano V, Reining L (2007) Efﬁcient ab initio calculations of bound and continuum excitons in the absorption spectra of semiconductors and insulators. Phys Rev B 76(16):161103(R) 10. Dreuw A, Head-Gordon M (2004) Failure of time-dependent density functional theory for long-range charge-transfer excited states: the zincbacteriochlorin-bacteriochlorin and bacteriochlorophyll-spheroidene complexes. J Am Chem Soc 126(12):40074016 11. Sánchez-de-Armas R, Miguel MAS, Oviedo J, Sanz JF (2012) Coumarin derivatives for dye sensitized solar cells: a TD-DFT study. Phys Chem Chem Phys 14(1):225233 12. Kurashige Y, Nakajima T, Kurashige S, Hirao K, Nishikitani Y (2007) Theoretical investi- gation of the excited states of coumarin dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem A 111(25):55445548 13. Wonga BM, Cordaro JG (2008) Coumarin dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells: a long-range- corrected density functional study. J Chem Phys 129(21):214703 14. Stein T, Kronik L, Baer R (2009) Prediction of charge-transfer excitations in coumarin- based dyes using a range-separated functional tuned from ﬁrst principles. J Chem Phys 131(24):244119 15. Chiu C-C, Sheng Y-C, Lin W-J, Juwita R, Tan C-J, Tsai H-HG (2018) Effects of internal electron-withdrawing moieties in D-A-π-A organic sensitizers on photophysical properties for DSSC: a computational study. ACS Omega 3(1):443445 16. Yang Z, Liu C, Li K, Cole JM, Shao C, Cao D (2018) Rotational design of dithienopicenocarbazole-based dyes and a prediction of their energy-conversion efﬁciency characteristics for dye-sensitized solar cells. ACS Appl Energy Mater 1(4):14351444 17. Wen Y, Yang H, Zheng D, Sun K, Wang L, Zhang J (2017) First-principles and molec- ular dynamics on A-D(π)-A type sensitizers for dye-sensitized solar cells: effects of various anchoring groups on electronic coupling and dye-aggregation. J Phys Chem C 121(26):14019 14026 18. Li M, Kou L, Diao L, Zhang Q, Li Z, Wu Q, Lu W, Pan D, Wei Z (2015) Theoretical study of WS- 9-based organic sensitizers for unusual Vis/NIR absorption and highly efﬁcient dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem C 119(18):97829790 19. Ronca E, Marotta G, Pastore M, Angelis FD (2014) Effect of sensitizer structure and TiO2 protonation on charge generation in dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem C 118(30):16927 16940 20. Sun P-P, Li Q-S, Yang L-N, Sun Z-Z, Li Z-S (2014) Theoretical investigation on structural and electronic properties of organic dye C258 on TiO2(101) surface in dye-sensitized solar cells. Phys Chem Chem Phys 16(39):2182721837 21. Ma W, Jiao Y, Meng S (2014) Predicting energy conversion efﬁciency of dye solar cells from ﬁrst principles. J Phys Chem C 118(30):1644716457 22. Pastore M, Fantacci S, Angelis FD (2013) Modeling excited states and alignment of energy levels in dye-sensitized solar cells: successes, failures, and challenges. J Phys Chem C 117(8):36853700 23. Angelis FD (2014) Modeling materials and processes in hybrid/organic photovoltaics: from dye-sensitized to perovskite solar cells. Acc Chem Res 47(11):33493360 24. Onida G, Reining L, Rubio A (2002) Electronic excitations: density-functional versus many- body Greens-function approaches. Rev Mod Phys 74(2):601659 25. Jacquemin D, Mennucci B, Adamo C (2011) Excited-state calculations with TD-DFT: from benchmarks to simulations in complex environments. Phys Chem Chem Phys 13(38):16987 16998 26. Caricato M, Mennucci B, Tomasi J, Ingrosso F, Cammi R, Corni S, Scalmani G (2006) Forma- tion and relaxation of excited states in solution: A new time dependent polarizable continuum model based on time dependent density functional theory. J Chem Phys 124(12):124520 27. Improta R, Scalmani G, Frisch MJ, Barone V (2007) Toward effective and reliable ﬂuorescence energies in solution by a new state speciﬁc polarizable continuum model time dependent density functional theory approach. J Chem Phys 127(7):074504 124 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski 28. Marenich AV, Cramer CJ, Truhlar DG, Guido CG, Mennucci B, Scalmani G, Frisch MJ (2011) Practical computation of electronic excitation in solution: vertical excitation model. Chem Sci 2(11):21432161 29. Rinkevicius Z, Tunell I, Salek P, Vahtras O, Ågren H (2003) Restricted density functional theory of linear time-dependent properties in open-shell molecules. J Chem Phys 119(1):3446 30. Santoro F, Improta R, Lami A, Bloino J, Barone V (2007) Effective method to compute Franck-Condon integrals for optical spectra of large molecules in solution. J Chem Phys 126(8):084509113 31. Santoro F, Lami A, Improta R, Barone V (2007) Effective method to compute vibrationally resolved optical spectra of large molecules at ﬁnite temperature in the gas phase and in solution. J Chem Phys 126(18):184102 32. de Souza B, Farias G, Neese F, Izsák R (2019) Predicting phosphorescence rates of light organic molecules using time-dependent density functional theory and the path integral approach to dynamics. J Chem Theory Comput 15(3):18961904 33. Tozer DJ, Handy NC (1998) Improving virtual KohnSham orbitals and eigenvalues: applicationtoexcitationenergiesandstaticpolarizabilities.JChemPhys109(23):1018010189 34. Laurent AD, Jacquemin D (2013) TD-DFT benchmarks: a review. Int J Quantum Chem 113(17):20192039 35. Le Guennic B, Jacquemin D (2015) Taking up the cyanine challenge with quantum tools. Acc Chem Res 48(3):530537 36. Mewes SA, Plasser F, Krylov A, Dreuw A (2018) Benchmarking excited-state calculations using exciton properties. J Chem Theory Comput 14(2):710725 37. Hedin L (1965) New method for calculating the one-particle greens function with application to the electron-gas problem. Phys Rev 139(3A):A796 38. Strinati G, Mattausch HJ, Hanke W (1980) Dynamical correlation effects on the quasiparticle bloch states of a covalent crystal. Phys Rev Lett 45(4):290 39. Strinati G, Mattausch HJ, Hanke W (1982) Dynamical aspects of correlation corrections in a covalent crystal. Phys Rev B 25(4):2867 40. Hybertsen MS, Louie SG (1986) Electron correlation in semiconductors and insulators: band gaps and quasiparticle energies. Phys Rev B 34(8):5390 41. Godby RW, Schlüter M, Sham LJ (1988) Self-energy operators and exchange-correlation potentials in semiconductors. Phys Rev B 37(17):10159 42. Strinati G (1986) Application of the Greens functions method to the study of the optical properties of semiconductors. Riv Nuovo Cim 11(12):186 43. Rohlﬁng M, Louie SG (1998) Excitonic effects and the optical absorption spectrum of hydrogenated Si clusters. Phys Rev Lett 80(15):3320 44. BenedictLX,ShirleyEL,BohnRB(1998)Opticalabsorptionofinsulatorsandtheelectron-hole interaction: an ab initio calculation. Phys Rev Lett 80(20):4514 45. Albrecht S, Reining L, Del Sole R, Onida G (1998) Ab initio calculation of excitonic effects in the optical spectra of semiconductors. Phys Rev Lett 80(20):4510 46. Marom N, Moussa JE, Ren X, Tkatchenko A, Chelikowsky JR (2011) Electronic structure of dye-sensitized TiO2 clusters from many-body perturbation theory. Phys Rev B 84(24):245115 47. PatrickCE,GiustinoF(2012)Quantitativeanalysisofvalencephotoemissionspectraandquasi- particle excitations at chromophore-semiconductor Interfaces. Phys Rev Lett 109(11):116801 48. Escudero D, Duchemin I, Blase X, Jacquemin D (2017) Modeling the photochromeTiO2 interface with bethesalpeter and time-dependent density functional theory methods. J Phys Chem Lett 8(5):936940 49. Blase X, Attaccalite C (2011) Charge-transfer excitations in molecular donor-acceptor complexes within the many-body Bethe-Salpeter approach. Appl Phys Lett 99(17):171909 50. Baumeier B, Andrienko D, Rohlﬁng M (2012) Frenkel and charge-transfer excitations in donoracceptor complexes from many-body greens functions theory. J Chem Theory Comput 8(8):27902795 51. Duchemin I, Blase X (2013) Resonant hot charge-transfer excitations in fullerene-porphyrin complexes: many-body Bethe-Salpeter study. Phys Rev B 87(24):245412 Delving Charge-Transfer Excitations  125 52. Verdi C, Mosconi E, Angelis FD, Marsili M, Umari P (2014) Alignment of energy levels in dye/semiconductor interfaces by GW calculations: effects due to coadsorption of solvent molecules. Phys Rev B 90(15):155410 53. Marsili M, Mosconi E, Angelis FD, Umari P (2017) Large-scale GW-BSE calculations with N3 scaling: excitonic effects in dye-sensitized solar cells. Phys Rev B 95(7):075415 54. Azarias C, Duchemin I, Blase X, Jacquemin D (2017) Bethe-Salpeter study of cationic dyes: Comparisons with ADC(2) and TD-DFT. J Chem Phys 146(3):034301 55. Niedzialek D, Duchemin I, Branquinho de Queiroz T, Osella S, Rao A, Friend R, Blase X, Kümmel S, Beljonne D (2015) First principles calculations of charge transfer excitations in polymer-fullerene complexes: inﬂuence of excess energy. Adv Funct Mater 25(13):12871295 56. Blase X, Attaccalite C, Olevano V (2011) First-principles GW calculations for fullerenes, porphyrins, phtalocyanine, and other molecules of interest for organic photovoltaic applica- tions. Phys Rev B 83(11):115103 57. Blase X, Ducheminb I, Jacquemin D (2018) The Bethe-Salpeter equation in chemistry: relations with TD-DFT, applications and challenges. Chem Soc Rev 47(3):10221043 58. Thatribud A (2019) Electronic and optical properties of TiO2 by ﬁrst-principle calculation (DFT-GW and BSE). Mater Res Express 6(9):095021 59. Tezuka Y, Shin S, Ishii T, Ejima T, Suzuki S, Sato S (1994) Photoemission and bremsstrahlung Isochromat spectroscopy studies of TiO2 (Rutile) and SrTiO3. J Phys Soc Jpn 63(1):347357 60. Wang Z, Helmersson U, Käll PO (2002) Optical properties of anatase TiO2 thin ﬁlms prepared by aqueous solgel process at low temperature. Thin Solid Films 405(12):5054 61. Liu B, Wen L, Zhao X (2007) The photoluminescence spectroscopic study of anatase TiO2 prepared by magnetron sputtering. Mater Chem Phys 106(23):350353 62. Landmann M, Rauls E, Schmidt WG (2012) The electronic structure and optical response of rutile, anatase and brookite TiO2. J Phys Condens Matter 24(19):195503 63. Hosaka N, Sekiya T, Satoko C, Kurita S (1997) Optical properties of single-crystal anatase TiO2. J Phys Soc Jpn 66(3):877880 64. Faber C, Duchemin I, Deutsch T, Blase X (2012) Many-body Greens function study of coumarins for dye-sensitized solar cells. Phys Rev B 86(15):155315 65. Iikura H, Tsuneda T, Yanai T, Hirao K (2001) A long-range correction scheme for generalized- gradient-approximation exchange functionals. J Chem Phys 115(8):35403544 66. Umari P, Giacomazzi L, Angelis FD, Pastore M, Baroni S (2013) Energy-level alignment in organic dyesensitized TiO2 from GW calculations. J Chem Phys 139(1):014709 67. Hahlin M, Odelius M, Magnuson M, Johansson EMJ, Plogmaker S, Hagberg DP, Sun L, Rensmo H (2011) Mapping the frontier electronic structures of triphenylamine based organic dyes at TiO2 interfaces. Phys Chem Chem Phys 13(8):35343546 68. Giannozzi P et al (2009) Quantum espresso: a modular and open-source software project for quantum simulations of materials. J Phys Condens Matter 21(39):395502 69. Schierbaum KD, Fischer S, Torquemada MC, de Segovia JL, Román E, Martín-Gago JA (1996) The interaction of Pt with TiO2(110) surfaces: a comparative XPS, UPS, ISS, and ESD study. Surf Sci 345(3):261273 70. Xiong G, Shao R, Droubay T, Joly A, Beck K, Chambers S, Hess W (2007) Photoemission electron microscopy of TiO2 anatase ﬁlms embedded with rutile nanocrystals. Adv Funct Mater 17(13):21332138 71. Mosconi E, Selloni A, Angelis FD (2012) Solvent effects on the adsorption geometry and electronic structure of dye-sensitized TiO2: a ﬁrst-principles investigation. J Phys Chem C 116(9):59325940 72. Redmond G, Fitzmaurice D (1993) Spectroscopic determination of ﬂatband potentials for polycrystalline titania electrodes in nonaqueous solvents. J Phys Chem 97(7):14261430 73. Muscat JP, Newns DM (1978) Chemisorption on metals. Prog Surf Sci 9(1):143 74. Persson P, Lundqvist MJ, Ernstorfer R, Goddard WA, Willig F (2006) Quantum chemical calculations of the inﬂuence of anchor-cum-spacer groups on femtosecond electron transfer times in dye-sensitized semiconductor nanocrystals. J Chem Theory Comput 2(2):441451 126 P. N. Samanta and J. Leszczynski 75. Martsinovich N, Troisi A (2011) High-throughput computational screening of chromophores for dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem C 115(23):1178111792 76. Lundqvist MJ, Nilsing M, Persson P, Lunell S (2006) DFT study of bare and dye-sensitized TiO2 clusters and nanocrystals. Int J Quantum Chem 106(15):32143234 77. Le Bahers T, Labat F, Pauporté T, Cioﬁni I (2010) Effect of solvent and additives on the open-circuit voltage of ZnO-based dye-sensitized solar cells: a combined theoretical and experimental study. Phys Chem Chem Phys 12(44):1471014719 78. Grätzel M (2009) Recent advances in sensitized mesoscopic solar cells. Acc Chem Res 42(11):17881798 79. Fana SQ, Fanga B, Choia H, Paika S, Kima C, Jeonga BS, Kima JJ, Ko J (2010) Efﬁciency improvement of dye-sensitized tandem solar cell by increasing the photovoltage of the back sub-cell. Electrochim Acta 55(15):46424646 80. Kim S, Lee JK, Kang SO, Ko J, Yum JH, Fantacci S, DeAngelis F, Di Censo D, Nazeeruddin MK, Grätzel M (2006) Molecular engineering of organic sensitizers for solar cell applications. J Am Chem Soc 128(51):1670116707 81. Kaplan F, Weigend F, Evers F, van Setten MJ (2016) Off-diagonal self-energy terms and partially self-consistency in GW calculations for single molecules: efﬁcient implementation and quantitative effects on ionization potentials. J Chem Theory Comput 11(11):51525160 82. Wilhelm J, Hutter J (2017) Periodic GW calculations in the Gaussian and plane-waves scheme. Phys Rev B 95(23):235123 83. Blase X, Attaccalite C (2011) Charge-transfer excitations in molecular donor-acceptor complexes within the many-body Bethe-Salpeter approach. Appl Phys Lett 99(17):171909 84. Faber C, Attaccalite C, Olevano V, Runge E, Blase X (2011) First-principles GW calculations for DNA and RNA nucleobases. Phys Rev B 83(11):115123 85. Faber C, Janssen JL, Côté M, Runge E, Blase X (2011) Electron-phonon coupling in the C60 fullerene within the many-body GW approach. Phys Rev B 84(15):155104 86. Wilhelm J, Golze D, Talirz L, Hutter J, Pignedoli CA (2018) Toward GW Calculations on Thousands of Atoms. J Phys Chem Lett 9(2):306312 87. Hung L, da Jornada FH, Souto-Casares J, Chelikowsky JR, Louie SG, Ögüt S (2016) Excitation spectra of aromatic molecules within a real-space GW-BSE formalism: Role of self-consistency and vertex corrections. Phys Rev B 94(8):085125 Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures for n- and p-type SemiconductorsA Theoretical Approach Anik Sen Abstract This chapter discusses the need for energy and a process to address such need with the help of a renewable source of energysolar energywhen the primary sources such as oil, natural gas, and coal are being depleted while also polluting the atmosphere. It discusses the rise of dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSC) and the invention of organic dyes. Several reports suggest that molecular modeling is an important key to understanding and developing new and efﬁcient organic dyes for DSSC. 1 Introduction 1.1 Requirement of Energy In todays world scenario, one of the most common questions is related to the sources and uses of energy in different ﬁelds. In 1807, Thomas Young ﬁrst used the term energy, which is deﬁned as a quantitative property that can be shifted in order to perform work or to heat. However, the law of conservation of energy states that Energy can be converted from one form to another but not created or destroyed. For example, a dynamite explosion is chemical energy converted to kinetic energy. The familiar forms of energy include kinetic energy, potential energy stored by an objects position (gravitational, electric or magnetic), elastic energy, chemical energy, radiant energy carried by light, thermal energy, etc. Every living organism requires energy to stay alive, so humans get that energy from food. Every civilization also needs energy to function, and they get it from different energy resources as stated in the next section of the chapter. A. Sen (B) Department of Chemistry, GITAM Institute of Science, GITAM (Deemed To Be University), Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh 530045, India e-mail: asen@gitam.edu  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021 J. K. Roy et al. (eds.), Development of Solar Cells, Challenges and Advances in Computational Chemistry and Physics 32, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-69445-6_6 127 128 A. Sen In chemistry, energy is a characteristic of a substance due to its atomic, molecular, or collective structural changes. In contrast, in biology, energy is a characteristic of all biological systems. Energy is solely accountable for the development of biological cells or organelles. The cells in the molecules of substances can store energy as different compounds such as carbohydrates (including sugars), lipids, and proteins. They can release energy when reacting with oxygen in respiration. 1.2 Sources of Energy With the population increase and invention of newer systems, we will have a continuous rise in the demand for energy around the world. The worlds energy resources are mostly fossil fuels, nuclear fuels, and renew- able resources. Still, the primary sources are fossil fuels: oil, coal, and natural gas. Estimating the residual amount of the fossil fuels on the planet requires a thorough investigation of Earths crust. Nevertheless, since these resources have been used for a long time, they are being depleted, and they are sources of pollution and thus not environmentally friendly. Still, the primary sources of energy are coal and oil, i.e., fossil fuels (see Fig. 1). Political issues, depleting amounts, and environmental pollu- tion issues are helping us to move away from fossil fuels toward renewable energy Fig. 1 Different sources of energy Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  129 Fig. 2 Renewable energies sources. Nuclear power sources could be a vital alternative, but they have a high risk of radiation. So, renewable sources of energy are the best alternative (Fig. 2). 2 Why Solar Energy? Sun is the primary source of energy. Adequate solar energy needed for the survival of every living organism reaches Earth every hour. It is a clean, renewable, and sustainable source of energy. The quantity of energy from the Sun that reaches Earth per annum is 4  1018 J, whereas the amount of energy consumed annually by the worlds population is about 3  1014 J. Solar energy is chosen over all the other renewable energy sources because it has some important advantages: (i) it is a permanent, natural, and free source; (ii) it is obtainable in abundance; (iii) it is non-polluting; (iv) it does not produce or release any greenhouse gases; (v) it offers devolution in most (sunny) locations, meaning independent societies; (vi) it is not affected by politics and price unpredictability that characterize fossil fuel markets; (vii) it does not negatively affect forests and eco-systems, unlike most fossil fuel operations. Plants capture the solar energy to use in photosynthesis to transform carbon dioxide and water into high-energy compounds: carbohydrates, proteins, and lipids. Therefore, during photosynthesis, the trees produce adenosine 5-triphosphate (ATP) 130 A. Sen OH O SH S P OH O O H O OH OH O N H O S O OH O OH OH N H O OH O OH N + O O  OH N OH OH NH O OH Carboxylic Acid (1) Dithiocarboxylic Acid (2) Phosphonic Acid (3) Catechol (4) Pyridine (5) Acetyl acetone (6) CyanocarboxylicAcid (7) Aldehyde (8) Benzaldehyde (9) Salicylic Acid (10) Sulphonate (11) Nitro (12) Hydroxamate (13) Hydroxyl Benzonitrile (14) Resorcinol (15) Dye Dye Dye Dye Dye Dye Dye Dye Dye Dye Dye Dye Dye Dye Fig. 3 Schematic diagram of different anchors for DSSC Fig. 4 UV-Vis absorption spectra of [Ru(CN)4L]2/TiO2 complex in three different solvents a water, b methanol, and c dimethyl sulphoxide [Reused with permission from Ref. [67], Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society] Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  131 energy. Creating such types of devices that can utilize solar energy to produce the energy needed for our household and other needs is the goal of solar energy scientists. 2.1 What Are Photovoltaic/Solar Cells? A photovoltaic cell can be deﬁned as an electrical device that can convert light energy to electrical energy. It is a physical and chemical phenomenon [14]. One can relate the photovoltaic effect to the photoelectric effect. In either case, light is absorbed, causing the electron to excite or other charge carriers to a higher energy state. However, the key variation lies in the aftereffect of the electrons. In the photo- electric effect, the electron is expelled out of the material (usually into a vacuum), whereas in the case of the photovoltaic effect, the excited electron or charge carrier is contained within the material. Edmond Becquerel in 1839 ﬁrst gave a demonstration of the photovoltaic effect through the ﬁrst solar cell, consisting of a coat of selenium covered with a thin ﬁlm of gold, which was experimented by Charles Fritts in 1884 [5]. The source of light or energy may vary from sunlight to artiﬁcial light, but as in most applications, the radiation is sunlight, so the devices are named solar cells. The ﬁrst prominent use of solar cells was for the Vanguard 1 satellite in 1958, where they were mainly used as an alternative power source. 2.2 Different Kinds of Solar Cells Solar cells are usually named after the semiconductor material used to make them. These materials have individual distinctiveness to absorb sunlight and are designed to be used on Earth and in space. The most commonly known solar cell is made from silicon, which has a large-area pn junction. The solar cells are classiﬁed into ﬁrst-, second-, and third-generation solar cells on their evolve timings. The ﬁrst generations of solar cells are based on crystalline silicon (mono- and polycrystalline). They are very heavy and costly but very efﬁcient. The second-generation solar cells are known as thin-ﬁlm solar cells, including amorphous silicon, CdTe, etc. Third-generation solar cells are also based on thin-ﬁlm technology and are mostly in the development phase. Other possible solar cell types are dye-sensitized solar cells, perovskite solar cells, organic solar cells, and quantum dot solar cells, etc., which are the subject of current research. 3 Why DSSCs Are Important In recent years, designing and manufacturing ﬂexible, lightweight, and highly efﬁ- cient solar cells is a prime research area. Silicon-based solar cells are very heavy 132 A. Sen and costly. Therefore, researchers have been exploring other options to design new lightweight and less expensive materials for solar cell studies. A few different solar cells on which current research is focused are perovskite solar cells, organic/polymer cells, DSSCs, and quantum dots. Perovskite solar cells include a perovskite-structured material (ABX3 type) as the active layer. The efﬁciencies of perovskite solar cells have increased from below 5% in the early 2000s to over 25% in 2019 [6]. Organic solar cells and polymer solar cells are manufactured from thin ﬁlms of semiconductors, including polymers such as polyphenylene vinylene and small molecules such as fullerene derivatives, copper phthalocyanine, etc. The polymer solar cells showed very low conversion efﬁciency to date. However, a recent study showed an efﬁciency of 8.3%. Both perovskite and organic solar cells are much cheaper than silicon and have excellent prospects in the future, but their main issue is stability and not being able to be commercialized. DSSCs are based on a device formed with a photo-sensitized anode or a semi- conductor that interacts with a dye sensitizer in the presence of an electrolyte or a redox media. The present version of a dye-sensitized solar cell was invented by Brian ORegan and Michael Grätzel in 1988 at UC Berkeley [7]. Such solar cells are less expensive and also less heavy than the older solid-state cell designs based on silicon. The efﬁciency for such DSSCs is found to be lower than that of the silicon solar cells, but their price/performance ratio is higher. The most common DSSC research is based on metalorganic dyes as they were found to be more efﬁcient and mostly based on the rare metal ruthenium. The advantages of such dyes over silicon-based dyes are their low weight, low cost, easier production, and higher ﬂexibility [816]. In DSSCs, the dye ﬁrst absorbs light, and then the charge is generated at the semiconductordye interface and transferred through the electrolyte. In a broad view, DSSCs consist of ﬁve different components: (a) a material that can be coated with a transparent and conductive oxide; (b) the base or the photo-electrode (semiconductor, n-type, or p-type); (c) a dye sensitizer (metal-based or purely organic), which will be interacting with the semiconductor; (d) the electrolyte or the redox mediator (M/M); and (e) a counter electrode, which has the capability to regenerate the redox mediator [17, 18]. For an n-type DSSC, as shown below, at ﬁrst S sensitizer is excited by a photon and then this excited sensitizer S*injects an electron into the CB, or the conduction band, of the n-type semiconductor. This injected electron excites the electrolyte to produce the electricity required, later an electron from the counter electrode ﬂows back to minimize the semiconductors charge. Some other processes such as back electron transfer also occur, which reduces the efﬁciency of the device. S(absorbed) + hν S*(absorbed) S*(absorbed) S+ (absorbed) + e (absorbed) M + e (CE) M (CE) Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  133 S+ (absorbed) + MS(absorbed) + M S+ (absorbed) + e (injected) S(absorbed) M + e (injected) M The overall efﬁciency of the device depends on the optimization and compatibility of each of the constituents. In the case of p-SC, hole transports from the dye to the semiconductor. Several hole transport materials are known: NiO, CuI, CuSCN, CsSnI3, etc. A similar working principle is observed for the p-type semiconductor-based DSSC. The difference lies in the sensitizers excited state, which after excitation transfers its electron to the electrolyte or to the attached catalyst. In this case, the semiconductor injects electrons into the dye and thereby creates holes in the valence band of the SC. It can also be stated in a different way that the dye injects hole to the valence band of the semiconductor. Although the standard design of the dyes for n- and p-type DSSCs consists of electron-donor (D) and electron-acceptor (A) linked with π conjugation (DπA) , the main difference between the two lies in the position of the acceptor or the anchoring groups. For n-type, it is attached on the electron-acceptor part, while the group is attached on the electron-donor part for p-type dyes. S(absorbed) + hν S*(absorbed) S*(absorbed) S (absorbed) + h+ (injected) M + h+ (CE) M (CE) S (absorbed) + M S(absorbed) + M DSSCs are currently the most efﬁcient third-generation solar technology avail- able due to their low cost and high durability (Scheme 1). DSSCs are attractive as a replacement for existing technologies in low applications such as rooftop solar collectors, where they are better than the heavy glass-based silicon solar cells. However, DSSCs are still not used for large-scale development because higher device Scheme 1 Schematic diagram of n- and p-type DSSCs 134 A. Sen efﬁciencies are still hovering over the cost-efﬁciency. But continuous research in the ﬁeld of DSSCs is being done to increase the efﬁciency of the DSSC devices, and in the near future, they may replace the costly solar cells in every ﬁeld. Moreover, DSSCs work in low-light conditions, so they can work when it is overcast or in non- direct sunlight. Even in bright lights in home, unlike traditional solar cells, which causes solar energy companies to suffer losses during the rainy season. Therefore, DSSC can very aptly soon take over and be used for indoor energy purposes. Photocatalysisistheaccelerationofaphotoreactioninthepresenceofacatalyst.In photogenerated catalysis, the photocatalytic activity (PCA) depends on the catalysts capability to create electronhole pairs that generate free radicals that can undergo reactions. A more advanced form of photocatalysis tries to perform multiple light- induced electron-transfer steps, accumulate these charges at the catalytic center, and perform multielectron catalytic conversions. Photocatalysis is generally of two types, based on the phase of the catalyst and the reactant. If the reactants and the catalysts exist in the same phase, it is known as homogeneous photocatalysis and if different, it is known as heterogeneous photocatalysis. Photocatalysts can be applied in various ﬁelds such as (i) conversion of water to hydrogen gas through photocatalytic water splitting [19]; (ii) generation of free radicals by TiO2, which helps in the oxidation of organic matter; (iii) oxidation of organic contaminants using magnetic particles coated with TiO2 nanoparticles [20]; (iv) the ability of TiO2 in presence water and a suitable electron donor to help in the conversion of carbon dioxide into gaseous hydrocarbons [21]; (v) removal of unwanted ﬁngerprints from sensitive optical and electrical instruments and sterilization of surgical instruments; and (vi) disinfection of water by supported titanium dioxide photocatalysts [22, 23] etc. Photocatalytic splitting of water is of tremendous importance in the present day as it has a great prospect for solving the crisis of energy [2426]. However, very little is known about the interplay of light absorption, directional electron transfer, and catalytic processes. The current understanding of experimental methods is limited to the ﬁrst electron transfer, while hydrogen evolution requires two electrons and water oxidation four. In other words, the total mechanism of the overall catalytic process is unclear. Theoretical methods have been involved in solving speciﬁc problems, but some information is obtained [27, 28], a general mechanism is still not established. Within this context, photoelectrochemical cells or PECs [29] are very interesting as they may offer not only a technically feasible proof of concept. They also limit the amount of collision-induced processes essential for the overall catalytic mechanism. In detail, they may be seen as solar cells that is often used to electrolyze water to hydrogen and oxygen gas by irradiating both electrodes with electromagnetic radiation. This type of work is referred to as artiﬁcial photosynthesis as it resembles the actual photosynthesis process and has been suggested to store solar energy in hydrogen for use as fuel. Two types of photochemical systems are known. One is with semiconductor surfaces as catalysts, which absorbs solar energy and acts as an electrode for water splitting at the same time. The other methodology uses in- solution metal complexes as chromophore and catalysts, while the electrode servers are electron acceptors or donors. Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  135 Involvement of the dye sensitizer was inaugurated in this photocatalysis when ORegan and Grätzel published their pioneering work on DSSCs in 1991 [7]. In recent years, Youngblood et al.; Li et al.; Song et al. [3036] focused on the DSPEC research based on mostly water oxidation with chromophore catalyst, but studies on dye-sensitized photocathodes for reduction of water or carbon dioxide are much less frequent [37, 38]. The aim of the recent studies including my research is intimately related to the ﬁeld of energy conversion and renewable energy sources, which are of uttermost importance for our society. Energy research is a ﬁeld focusing on making available adequate major energy sources and minor energy forms to meet the needs of society. This includes the production of conventional, substitute, and renewable sources of energy and the revival and recycling of energy. Renewable energy is produced by natural resources such as sunlight, rain, wind, waves, tides, and geothermal heat. Since the direct combustion of fossil fuels causes the most signiﬁcant amount of air pollution, continuous incremental progress in developing renewable energy tech- nologies is required. The hydrogen fuel cell is one of the promising alternatives to fossil fuels. Hydrogen fuel may reduce the threat of fossil fuels depletion in the near future. It can be produced from waste, biomass, solar, hydro, wind, nuclear power, or geothermal energy and may offer the greatest long-term potential to radically reduce the usage of non-renewable sources. Renewable hydrogen can be produced in numerous ways: i. splitting of water into oxygen and hydrogen using electricity or electrolysis; ii. conversion of biomass either by thermochemical or biochemical alteration to intermediate products that can form hydrogen or direct hydrogen formation through fermentation techniques; and iii. conversion of solar energies which can be obtained by thermolysis, using solar- generated heat in which the solar photons are used to produce hydrogen directly by involving biological or electrochemical systems. For practical environmental applications, the immobilization of the photocata- lyst on appropriate support is extremely attractive for several reasons. Attaching the catalytically active materials to supports allows a spatial separation of the reduction and oxidation processes and their products so that unwanted recombination reactions are avoided. Immobilization of the photocatalyst suppresses potential intermolecular reactions between highly oxidizing species thus preventing possible decomposition. And through nanostructuring the support, the immobilized catalysts can be dispersed efﬁciently. The best-studied support material for photocatalytic hydrogen evolution is NiO; however, its performance is limited by some severe drawbacks such as unfavor- able charge transport properties and its own catalytic activity leading to side reactions [39]. The already relatively well-established photocatalytic water oxidation catalyst immobilized on TiO2 electrodes [35] have not reached their full potential as the potential generated is insufﬁcient for hydrogen evolution at the counter electrode. The recently published ﬁrst report on a NiO-based molecular photocatalytic system for hydrogen evolution [39] is based on a photosensitizer, Rutheniumpolypyridyl complex, a bridging ligand, and a coordinated cobalt center as the catalytic center. 136 A. Sen Here, photoexcitation of the ruthenium unit leads to intramolecular charge transfer to the catalytic cobalt center. The NiO-electrode donates an electron to the oxidized ruthenium center, closing the ﬁrst redox cycle. The subsequent events are not known; however, upon several hours of irradiation, catalytic hydrogen formation occurs via the cobalt center. The stability of the charge-separated state, Ru(III)Co(II), versus charge injection from the electrode NiO to the Ru(III) is one key aspect determining overall catalytic efﬁciency. Theoretical calculations to understand the process, describing the formation of the barrier so that the ﬂow of electrons or holes is possible for the photocatalysts to work are very important. Many theoretical calculations on dye-sensitized solar cell with TiO2 have been done, although the same for photo electrocatalytic processes for water splitting on such NiO surfaces are scarce. Recently, M. Shen et al. discussed the photocatalytic activity of porous NiO nanowires [40]. They have performed exper- imental studies and theoretical calculations to understand how to improve NiOs electro- and photocatalytic activities and exhibited a possible route for the develop- ment of structurally steady and chemically active catalysts in new energy applications with high performance. Such artiﬁcial photosynthesis studies can be performed with p- and n-conjugated DSSCs which are commonly known as tandem cells, and the theoretical efﬁciency of tandem cells is higher than the single-junction DSCs. The tandem cell is a sandwich conﬁguration with an intermediate electrolyte layer of both n-DSSC and p-DSSC. The matching of photocurrent is vital for the construction of highly efﬁcient tandem pn-DSCs. Though, n-DSCs have a fast charge recombination, but the much slower hole injection process for p-DSCs results in a low efﬁciency of the p-DSC and thus hampers the overall devices efﬁciency. Some major disadvantages for the DSSC uses: 1. The usage of the liquid electrolyte has stability problems due to its temperatures: a. at lower temperatures, the electrolyte may freeze, and thus power produc- tion is halted, which leads to physical damage; b. at very high temperatures, the liquid expands and makes the panels seal, which causes a serious problem. So, liquid electrolyte is a serious problem for such devices. 2. The second disadvantage is the use of costly ruthenium or such metal dyes for the dye sensitizer. This can be avoided by the use of low-cost metal dyes or organic-based dye sensitizers. Many researchers are developing other low-cost metal-centered dye sensitizers and organic dye sensitizers for DSSC. Quantum dot solar cells (QDSCs) are the new development in solar cells and are based on the Gratzel cell, or DSSCs architecture. In such devices, the semiconductor nanoparticles have low band gaps and are fabricated with crystallite sizes minute enough to form quantum dots as an alternative of the organic or organometallic dyes used in the normal DSSCs (e.g., CdS, CdSe, Sb2S3, PbS, etc.). Environmentally friendly green materials such as CuInS2, CuInSe2, and CuInSeS) [41] are used in QDSC. Like the normal DSSCs, in QDSC the backbone is formed by a mesoporous Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  137 layer of titanium dioxide nanoparticles, which can be made photoactive by coating with semiconductor quantum dots, using chemical soak deposition, electrophoretic deposition, or ionic layer adsorption and reaction. Recently, it has been observed that the efﬁciency of QDSCs has increased [42] to 5% for both liquid junction and solid-state cells [43]. One report has also shown efﬁciency of 11.91% [44]. However, limitations are still present as the adsorption is weak at room temperature for such quantum dots (QDs) in the QDSCs [45]. 4 Development of New Dye Sensitizers Ruthenium-based metal dyes are still known to be the highly efﬁcient DSSCs for n-SC [4659]. The use of polypyridylmetal complexes as photosensitizers or photo- catalysts is well known for the last two decades [38, 6063]. These photosensitizers immobilized on the semiconductor surfaces (SC) in a DSSCs are responsible for the conversion of energy. For n-type DSSCs, Rupolypyridyl complexes have shown the best photo-voltaic properties among the metals, whereas their use is limited for p-type DSSCs [8]. But Ru or Repolypyridyl complexes have been used [64, 65] for hydrogen evolution or photo-catalytic CO2 reduction on p-type SCs like NiO or TaON. Meyer and co-workers [66] reported about dual sensitization of TiO2 using iron-based metal-centered dyes and electron injection through cyano-ligand. 4.1 Studies on Metal-Centered Dyes The metal-centered dyes generally have two parts, the metal complex and the anchor group interconnected with a ligand. The anchors are the important part that connects the dye with the semiconductor surface. Mainly the metal complex part has the most important component to absorb the sunlight. The photovoltaic performances are analyzed based on terms of conversion yield and long-term stability, and it has been observed that polypyridyl complexes of ruthenium and osmium are the best. General structures that are mostly preferred to be good sensitizers are ML4 or ML2(X)2, where M can be Ru or Os and L is 2,2-bipyridyl-4,4-dicarboxylic acid, and X can be a cyanide, halide, acetyl acetonate, thiacarbamate, thiocyanate, or water substituent group [6771]. Polypyridyl complexes of the d6 transition metals (RuII, OsII, and ReI) are mostly used in DSSC as they have a rich photochemistry due to prolonged MLCT excited states [52, 56, 7274]. Polypyridyl complexes of these metals are commonly known as DSSC for n-type semiconductors like TiO2 [7584]. Iridium complexes have also been studied for use in DSSC in recent years [85]. Karmakar et al. showed many diverse metal complexes used in this ﬁeld for n-type semiconductors, but according to their research, ruthenium complexes were observed to be the most competent ones [86]. 138 A. Sen Ruthenium-based dyes can be classiﬁed under phosphonate ruthenium dyes, carboxylate polypyridyl ruthenium dyes, and polynuclear bipyridyl ruthenium dyes [87, 88]. In 1993, Grätzel reported cis-[Ru(dcbH2)2(NCS)2], known as N3 dye, which was one of the most promising dye sensitizers [89]. Other efﬁcient dyes were explored based on Ruthenium metals, namely N719, N749, and Z907, to list a few [9092]. Research on near IR dyes as sensitizer for DSSC has been carried out, including ruthenium complexes containing 1,8-naphthyridyl or biquinoline moieties, osmium polypyridyl complexes, cyclometallated ruthenium complexes, and phthalo- cyanine and perylene dyes [9395]. Crown ether-based Ru-dyes have also been synthesized but showed a very low efﬁciency of 2% and IPCE of 31% at 530 nm [96]. Osmium sensitizers were also examined and found to be 50% less efﬁcient than Ru complexes, but they have better photochemical stability than the previous. Different complex dyes have been synthesized based on osmium metal such as [OsII(H3tcterpy)(CN)3](H3tcterpy = 4,4,4-tricarboxy 2,2:6,2-terpyridine) and osmium sensitizers including 2,2-bipyridine-4,4-bisphosphonic acid ligand, but the IPCE values were still lower than the Ru complex [97]. Dyes based on such scarce and heavy metal ions are difﬁcult to synthesize and not environmentally friendly. Thus, research has been executed in recent years to develop cheaper dyes based on more abundant metals as well as nonmetal organic dyes. Iron (fourth abundant element in Earths crust) has very recently been used for DSSC with TiO2 [98, 99]. Research also showed applications of nickel, chromium, copper, and zinc metal ions (some other abundant metal ions) for the DSSC [100103]. Nickel(II) polypyridyl complex is also newly used as a catalyst for hydrogen production from water [104, 105]. 4.2 Studies on Organic Dyes Organic dyes have attracted considerable attention as they are capable of high sunlight-to-electricity conversion, high molar absorption coefﬁcient. Also, their ease of synthesis and low production costs are signiﬁcant attractions to researchers in this ﬁeld [106]. Metal-free organic dyes naturally have a simple DlA structure, where D is the donor moiety (electron-rich) and A is the acceptor (electron-poor) moiety connected with a l-spacer. Since the invention and successful synthesis of the novel organic dye polyenediphenylaniline, also known as D5, with an overall efﬁ- ciency of 5% [107111], many theoretical and experimental calculations have been performed to progress the DSSC performance through sensible alteration of donor [112], π-spacer [113115], and acceptor [116120] subunits. Recently, novel organic dyes with a DAπA design have been introduced with an additional acceptor A into the conventional DπA structure. These auxiliary electron-withdrawing groups A [121124] in this kind of organic sensitizer DAπA moieties display outstanding photovoltaic properties for many systems [125132] but also have some unpleasant effects [133135]. In the previous topic, we also discussed the tandem cells, which consist of an n-type photo-anode linked with a p-type photo-cathode. But the efﬁciency of such Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  139 devices is restricted to the low efﬁciency of the p-type DSSCs. After the research on NiO DSSC studies based on erythrosine-based (organic dye) studies by Lindquist et al. [136], numerous studies have been performed to increase the efﬁciency of p- type DSSCs such as coumarin, [137, 138] perylene monoimide [139141], porphyrin [142, 143], amine [144], etc., donor groups. 5 My Contributions Improving the efﬁciency of the DSSCs is a complex crisis and a demanding job. Different features related to the dye contribute to the efﬁciency of the DSSCs(i) accurate choice of an appropriate anchor to interact on a semiconductor surface; (ii) absorbance of light in the visible spectrum; (iii) high electron injection efﬁ- ciency from the dye (excited state) to the semiconductor surface; (iv) easy regener- ation of the sensitizer molecule with the help of the counter electrode and the elec- trolyte; (v) the control on the slow undesired charge recombination processes that are present between the LUMO of the dye and TiO2 conduction band, etc. [6770, 93, 94]. Recently, many theoretical and experimental studies have been performed on various organic dye sensitizers based on cyanines, hemicyanines, triphenylmethanes, perylenes, coumarins, porphyrins, squarines, etc., donor groups. Several studies have also been carried out with various π-linkers such as ethenyl [125127], phenylene [128], and thiophene derivatives [129], to name a few. Different acceptors have been studied that are more frequently known as anchor groups as they immobilize on the semiconductor surface directly. Anchoring groups like carboxylic acid (1), cyanoacrylic acid (7), and phosphonic acid (3) are very common for DSSCs studies [130132, 145, 146]. Another compound that is frequently used for anchors is cate- chol (4) [147150]. The pyridine-based anchoring group (5) and its properties have been found to be comparable with a traditional phenyl carboxylate anchor that was ﬁrst developed by Ooyoma et al. [151, 152]. Acetylacetone is another well-known anchoring group (6), which is also well known for its coordination properties in the direction of transition metals [153, 154] and has been effectively utilized as a linker for DSSCs [155157]. A recently developed anchor group dithiocarboxylic acid (2) for p-type semiconductors is also very fruitful [158, 159]. Several other anchoring groups have been used for DSSCs studies and are well studied in literature: aldehyde and benzaldehyde (8, 9) [160, 161], salicyclic acid (10) [162, 163], sulfonic acid (11) [164166], nitro (12) [167], hydroxamate (13) [168170], hydroxyl-benzonitrile (14) [171, 172], and resorcinol (15) [173]. Metalorganic dyes have been used with the anchoring groups 10 and 13 for n-SCs, whereas organic dyes are used for the other anchors 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, and 15 (Fig. 3). Theoretical investigation of the challenges for both experiment and theory to understand many fundamental properties decisive for the efﬁciency of the DSSCs is still very important. In order to improve the performance of dye sensitizers ﬁrst the physical properties of known dyes need to be analyzed and then novel dyes that promise a higher performance need to be suggested based on the gained insights. This 140 A. Sen would be a much more environmentally friendly and lower cost way to gain better and more efﬁcient dyes. In this regard, my work has been dedicated to signiﬁcantly contribute to this ﬁeld and understanding the ways of enhancing the efﬁciency of the metalorganic and organic dyes for both n-type and p-type semiconductors. 5.1 Theoretical Calculation Strategy The conversion efﬁciency for a DSSC is generally given by the symbol η and is given by the following equation [109]: η = F F JSCVOC Pinc (1) In this case, FF is the Fill Factor; VOC is the open-circuit photovoltage, and the short-circuit current density is given by JSC. Pinc stands for the incident solar power. The short-circuit current density is given by the equation: Jsc = 0 λ LHE(λ)inject.ηcollect.ηregenIs(λ).dλ (2) where LHE is the light-harvesting efﬁciency at wavelength λ of photon, Φinject is the hole injection, and ηregen is the efﬁciency for regeneration for the oxidized dye. The charge collection efﬁciency is given by the term ηcollect [109]. It has been observed from Eq. 2 that the short-circuit current density is directly proportional to the LHE, Φinject, ηregen, and ηcollect. The LHE or the light-harvesting efﬁciency can be calculated by the theoretical method by calculating the oscillator strength of the adsorbed dye molecule at the respective absorption maximum, λmax using the following equation: LHE(λ) = 110f (3) For n-type DSSC, Φinject is the efﬁciency for electron injection, ïcollect denotes the charge collection efﬁciency, and the ïregen is the regeneration efﬁciency. Φinject is similar to ΔGinject, i.e., the driving force for the electron injessction from the excited state of the dye to the semiconductor. The calculations of the ΔGinject can be performed theoretically and are very well described in the previous articles [109, 174]. They calculated the oxidation potential of the excited state (Edye*), and the conjugate band edge of the semiconductor used and the difference of these two gave the ΔGinject. Ginject = EdyeEC B, (4) Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  141 whereas the regeneration efﬁciency, which is closely related to the free energy change of the regeneration (ΔGregen), can be calculated from the difference of the oxidation potential of the dye and the redox potential of the electrolyte. Gregen = Edye Eredox A/A (5) The previous articles on this topic also revealed that the open-circuit photovoltage (V oc) is directly dependent on the perpendicular dipole moment or the normal dipole moment of the dyes on the semiconductor. An increase in the normal dipole moment directly increases V oc. For the case of p-type DSSC, Φinject is the hole injection efﬁciency and ΔGinject, i.e., the driving force of the injection of electron from the dyes excited state to the semiconductor or also given as the hole injection from the semiconductor to the dye and ΔGregen is the regeneration efﬁciency of the dye. The equation for calculating the hole injection efﬁciency is given as below [175]: Ginject =  EVB(NiO) (E00(S) + E(S/S)  (6) Here, in the equation the E00(S) is the electronic excitation energy equivalent to the maximum absorption, whereas E(S/S) symbolizes the sensitizers reduction potential. The EVB(NiO) indicates the valence-band energy level of the semicon- ductor [147, 148]. A detailed description can be observed in the previous article by Sen et al. [175]. Theoretically, the reduction potential of the sensitizer can be calcu- lated, and its difference from the redox energy denotes the regeneration efﬁciency as observed in the article by Sen et al. [175177]. The open-circuit photovoltage V oc, for the p-type can also be determined from the variation of the Fermi levels between the redox couple electrode and the NiO semiconductor[175].Theexcited-statelifetimecalculationwasalsodescribedbrieﬂy in the article by Sen et al. [175]. 5.1.1 Pendant Catechol Functionality Using a New Tetracyanato Ruthenium(II) Polypyridyl Complex [67] In this work, comprising both experimental and theoretical collaborative work, a new ruthenium (II)polypyridyl complex ([Ru(CN)4L]2having a pendant catechol functionality was synthesized for binding to the nanoparticulate of TiO2 surfaces (Scheme 2). A detailed report was presented in the work on the interfacial electron trans- port dynamics linking the conjugate band of the TIO2 and the photoexcited states of the sensitizer molecule, using femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy. This report was the ﬁrst of its kind that gave a detailed understanding of the ultra- fast electron transfer dynamics for sensitization of nanocrystalline TiO2 based on tetracyano rutheniumpolypyridyl complex (solvatochoromic dye). The Emission spectra, as well as the steady-state optical absorption, were recorded for the complex 142 A. Sen Scheme 2 Synthetic procedure for the complex [Reused with permission from Ref. [67], Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society] in various solvents and their mixtures, which showed the solvatochromic behavior of the dye molecule. The steady-state absorption studies also recommended the cate- cholate moiety binds through a pendant mode to the TiO2 surfaces through though the complex possessed two varied binding functionalities (coordinated CNand the pendant catecholate group) (Fig. 4). At higher wavelengths, the 1/TiO2 system showed a broader band when compared to the complex, which can be explained by the formation of a stronger charge- transfer complex. DFT studies further explained this observation. Electron injection was observed to be single exponential (100 fs) indicating the injection of electrons from the 1MLCT (non-thermalized singlet state) or the 3MLCT (triplet state) or a combination of both. My contribution involved full optimization of the geome- tries employing density functional calculations. Our DFT calculations showed that the HOMO of the dye corresponds to the orbital coefﬁcient largely located on the Ru(II) center and the coordinated CNligands (Fig. 5), while the LUMO contri- bution was observed on the ligand. In comparison to the complexed dye with the TiO2 surface, the frontier molecular orbitals showed that the HOMO still largely contributes to the Ru(II)-center and coordinated CNligands but for the LUMO, the coefﬁcients are largely concentrated on the catechol-bound ring of ligand and not similarly spread as found for the parent system. Furthermore, the energy difference Fig. 5 DFT calculated FMO of a [Ru(CN)4L]2in H2O and b [Ru(CN)4L]2-/TiO2 in H2O [Reused with permission from Ref. [67], Copyright 2010, American Chemical Society] Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  143 of the HOMO-LUMO for the dye was calculated to be 2.035 eV in water. This was in good concurrence with the 2.03 eV value observed in the photoelectrochemical studies. The frontier orbital energy difference for TiO2 bound complex was observed to be much smaller (0.705 eV), and thus it conﬁrms that such interactions will shift the absorbance to a longer wavelength. 5.1.2 Photosensitization of Nanoparticulate TiO2 Using a Re(I)polypyridyl Complex [68] The Re(I) complex was synthesized and the interfacial electron transfer dynamics was obtained between the complex and TiO2 nanoparticles, using femtosecond tran- sient absorption spectroscopy in agreement with the previous work to check how rhenium complexes perform. The d6 transition metals such as RuII, OsII, ReI display a rich photochemistry principally due to their comparatively long-lived metal-to- ligand charge-transfer (MLCT), and so it was thought that rhenium should also show similar charge transfer like the ruthenium moiety [70, 178]. In addition, rhenium polypyridyl complexes are used as vital photosensitizers for electron- and energy- transfer reactions with probable applications as components of molecular electronic or photonic devices, in light energy conversion, etc. In this work, we have synthesized Re(CO)3Cl(L) with the structure as shown below (Scheme 3). A detailed transient absorption spectral study for studying the dynamics was then performed for the interfacial electron transfer, which was also in accordance with the dynamics of the excited-state relaxation. They were observed and calculated along with the dynamics of the back electron transfer from the excited TiO2 complex. The theoretical study in this work was based on the insight into the interactions of the molecular orbitals chieﬂy of the sensitizer along with electronic bands of the substrate, i.e., the TiO2. This will help to understand the experimental explanations of the ultrafast multi-exponential and photoinduced heterogeneous electron-transfer rates in such systems. Through our computational calculations, we also examined an overall redshift for the observed MLCT band in the binding of the Re complex to the TiO2. The frontier molecular orbitals obtained for both the free Re complex (in gas phase and solvent) and the cluster bound to TiO2 (in gas phase and solvent) are shown in Fig. 6 below. The DFT studies of the orbital analyses for both the free and Scheme 3 Synthetic procedure followed for complex formation [Reused with permission from Ref. [68], Copyright 2012, Royal Society of Chemistry.] 144 A. Sen Fig. 6 DFT-calculated FMOs for Re(CO)3(L)Cl in a gas phase (1gas) and b solvent phase (acetoni- trile)(1Solvent). The TiO2 bound FMOs for the 1TiO2 (1 bound to TiO2) in gas and solvent phase (1SolventTiO2) are given in ﬁgures c and d, respectively [Reused with permission from Ref. [68], Copyright 2012, Royal Society of Chemistry] bound ligands showed that the HOMO orbitals are mostly located on the metal center and the co-ordinated CO and Cl ligands [179]. A large coefﬁcient of the LUMO was observed on the ligand L in the TiO2-bound complex. The energy difference between the frontier orbitals for the complex in acetonitrile solvent was also calculated using the TDDFT calculations and was in concurrence with the values observed from the photoelectrochemical studies. Like in the previous work, the frontier orbital energy difference for the TiO2 cluster-bound complex was found to be much smaller than the free one, which is in agreement with the shift of absorbance to the longer wavelength. Thesteady-stateopticalabsorptionspectroscopysuggeststhestrongbindingofthe sensitizer molecule to TiO2 NP. The back-electron transfer is a common phenomenon in these systems and was understood by watching the decay kinetics of the cation radical, and injection of electrons in the conduction band of TiO2. A strong coupling was also observed amidst the Re(I) complex (1) and TiO2 nanoparticles, which facil- itates the ultrafast back electron-transfer reaction. The injected electrons recombine with the parent cation radical and then de-localize in the TiO2 nanoparticles. This was Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  145 Fig. 7 The calculated ΔGinject for the various scarce and abundant metal ions for the ﬁve different anchors [Reused with permission from Ref. [175], Copyright 2019, JOHN/Wiley and Sons, INC.] also a very ﬁrst case of localized electron-transfer dynamics in the transition metal polypyridyl complex for the sensitized TiO2 nanoparticles. It was also observed comparing the ReI and RuII complexes that the latter had longer BET, which is one of the important criteria to predict a better and more efﬁcient dye sensitizer. 5.1.3 Promising Sensitizers for Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: A Comparison of Ru(II) and Other Earths Scarce and Abundant Metal Polypyridine Complexes [175] As stated above, polypyridyl complexes of the d6 transition metals (RuII, OsII, and ReI) are mostly used in DSSCs as they have a rich photochemistry due to long-lived MLCT excited states. Such complexes are widely known as DSSCs for n-type SCs such as TiO2 [80, 180182]. Other DSSC devices are also based on different scarce metal complexes such as iridium complexes, but studies revealed that ruthenium complexes are observed to be the best ones [183185]. However, due to the lack of such metals in Earths crust, the development of dyes with abundant metal ions as well as metal-free organic dyes are important nowadays and also very common. Recent studies have been performed on iron (fourth abundant element in Earths crust) for DSSC with TiO2 [186, 187]. Literature survey also showed that other abundant metals: nickel, chromium, copper, and zinc metal ions are used for DSSCs [102, 188]. But a proper elaborative study to recognize promising metal-centered dye sensitizers based on several of Earths abundant and scarce metals has not been done on a p-type semiconductor like NiO. 146 A. Sen In this study, we have designed the tris bipyridine complex with different scarce as well as abundant metal ions attached to familiar anchoring groups used for DSSCs (Scheme 4) [158]. The different properties such as light-harvesting efﬁciency (LHE), the free energy change ΔGinject upon hole injection from the dye to the SC, etc., [148, 149] are calculated using DFT. It has been stated that of all the different scarce metal ions such as ruthenium, rhenium, rhodium, palladium, iridium, osmium, and cadmium and abundant metal ions such as iron, vanadium, manganese, zinc, chromium, nickel, and copper, vanadium and chromium metal-centered dyes are the most promising candidates and can be proposed for further studies. Abundant tran- sition metal ions such as vanadiumpolypyridyl complexes have never been studied in the DSSC ﬁeld. Our analysis gave the ﬁrst view of such a system through proper molecular modeling studies. Scheme 4 Schematic diagram of the metal complex acting as dye sensitizers and the different anchors designed for such complex [Reused with permission from Ref. [175], Copyright 2019, JOHN/Wiley and Sons, INC.] Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  147 It also showed vanadium and chromium complexes are promising alternatives and much better than the scarce Ru complex dye sensitizers. The DFT study showed high HOMO levels for such metal ions, which is also signiﬁcant to provide high photovoltage. Long excited-state lifetimes for the dyes with the abundant-metal ions V3+ and Cr2+ were also observed, which facilitates the charge transfer. In this study, the excited states were selected according to the FrankCondon approach as it has been done in many previous studies [161, 189] (Fig. 7). 5.1.4 Importance of Bridging Geometry on Interfacial Electron Transfer Dynamics [173] In this work, the femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy is employed in enediol-TiO2 systems, i.e., having two diol systems such as catechol, resorcinol, and quinol. Our goal was to distinguish between the localized versus the delocalized interfacial electron-transfer dynamics in dyenanoparticle systems. A formation of a charge-transfer complex between the TiO2 nanoparticles and the enediols (catechol, resorcinol, and quinol) were noted, which was conﬁrmed by the optical absorp- tion studies. The experimental data clearly showed a decrease in the charge-transfer interactions from catechol to resorcinol to quinol. Such a reduction in the interaction strength from catechol to quinol was probably due to a decreased overlap between the HOMO on the enediol and the conduction band of TiO2. Our results also proved that the back-electron transfer (BET) is faster in the catecholTiO2 system than the resorcinol and quinolTiO2 systems. There was an exact observance of the decay time increase with an increase in the distance between the bridging ligand as we move from catechol to quinol. Thus, it was proven that there is an inﬂuence of the bridging distance between the enediols and TiO2 (Scheme 5). Molecular modeling studies with GGA/PW91/DND performed using a titanium dioxide cluster [Ti8O32] with DMOL3 software also indicated an enhancement in the injected-electron delocalization over several Ti atoms. This is due to the increase in the distance between the bridge linkers. Gas-phase optimizations were performed for each case followed by single-point calculations in chloroform, using COSMO solvation model [190, 191]. The TiO2 anatase {101} surface was prepared based on former reports for the interaction of catechol [192]. The DFT calculations on frontier molecular orbital of the ligand complexed with the TiO2 in chloroform are given in Fig. 8. The results showed that the energy gap between the FMOs for catechol with the TiO2 surface is 1.38 eV. But as we go to the other enediol, i.e., the resorcinol, with an increase in the distance between the OH groups, we observe an increase in the FMO gap, 1.67 eV. This difference arises due to the diverse mode of binding of these two enediols with the TiO2 surface. A further increase in the distance between the OH groups is observed for the case of quinol as well as a slight increase in the GMO gap. But as seen in the ﬁgure below, a highly distorted structure was observed for the interaction of the quinol ring while it interacted with the surface, which arises 148 A. Sen Scheme 5 Schematic diagram of the binding pattern of the three enediols on TiO2 surface and the kinetics traces at 620 nm for different enediol-sensitized TiO2 nanoparticles in chloroform [Reused with permission from Ref. [173], Copyright 2012, American Chemical Society] due to the large OO distance of enediol, as compared to the distance between the two linking titanium atoms. Therefore, although the delocalization on the TiO2 surface and the BET time increases with the increase of the distance between the linker atoms signiﬁcant caution should be taken during the interaction on the surface, as not all surface may be suitable for such interactions. Excited-state calculations for all the three dyes complexed with the TiO2 surface were also carried out using the ZINDO semiem- pirical method with conﬁguration interaction (CI). FMOs obtained with ZINDO showed results similar to the ground-state calculations. Thus, one can conclude that electron-transfer control can also be achieved by varying just the bridge linkers without any change in the binding group involved. 5.1.5 Change in Efﬁciency by Designing New Organic Dyes with Azacyclazine Scaffold as the Donor Fragment [109] As stated earlier and from the different literature surveys, it is clear that the efﬁ- ciency of the organic dyes with the DπA structure can be altered by a change in the donor or π-linker or the acceptor groups. This section reports a series of organic donor molecules with augmented energy conversion efﬁciency, using π- spacers and cyanoacrylic acid as an anchoring group [8, 9]. Theoretical DFT and TDDFT calculations were performed in the study. The DFT- and TD-DFT-calculated results of such molecules showed that dyes 4 and 6 (Scheme 6) had higher driving forces, i.e., the free energy of the electron Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  149 Fig. 8 FMOs of the different enediols bound to the TiO2 surface and their corresponding energy differences in eV calculated with GGA/PW91/DND in a chloroform solvent using the COSMO solvation model. a CatecholTiO2, b resorcinolTiO2, and c quinolTiO2 [Reused with permission from Ref. [173], Copyright 2012, American Chemical Society] injection efﬁciency (ΔGinject = 1.66 and 1.80 eV, respectively) and the light- harvesting efﬁciency (LHE = 0.99). Such dyes possess large Jsc compared to the other examined dyes. The calculated results also suggested that these designed dyes possessed higher ΔGinject and LHE than the known donor fragment 1. Also, according to the calculations, the vertical/normal dipole moment for dyes 4 and 6 was higher than 1, resulting in better V oc, which can exhibit high cell performance (Figs. 9 and 10). 150 A. Sen Fig. 9 Perpendicular dipole moments of dyes 4 and 6 at the C-PCM-B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory in THF solvent [Reused with permission from Ref. [109], Copyright 2014, American Chemical Society] 5.1.6 Change in Efﬁciency with Involving Additional Linkers for Organic Dyes for p-type Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells [193] The Tandem cells efﬁciency is calculated theoretically to be higher than either of the single junction DSSC (p-type or n-type). Experimentally, the high efﬁciency of such tandem cells with dual junction having both n- and p-type SCs in a device has not been observed. Such tandem DSSC concepts are well known [194196], but the largest drawback in the development of such tandem cells is the low efﬁciency of the p-type DSSCs. Such research ﬁelds are critical, and many recent works have been performed to develop a better and more efﬁcient p-type of DSSCs [193]. In their recent work, Sen et al. performed theoretical calculations to check the change in the driving force and the efﬁciency of the p-DSSCs on testing additional spacers between the donor and the acceptors (Scheme 7). Sen et al. showed through their DFT- and TDDFT-calculated results that such additional π-linkers or spacers are not always increasing the driving force and the efﬁciency of the p-DSSCs but only certain additional spacers such as benzene and fused π-linkers with a higher rigidity such as DTBTZ, NDT, and DTQX (Scheme 7) Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  151 Fig. 10 FMOs of the dyes 4 and6 at the CAM-B3LYP/6-31+G* level of theory in the gas phase with an isodensity surface of 0.02 [Reused with permission from Ref. [109], Copyright 2014, American Chemical Society] can signiﬁcantly enhance the driving force of the dyes. High-level quantum calcula- tions were performed to compute the hole-injection efﬁciency, light-harvesting efﬁ- ciency, perpendicular dipole moments, and regeneration efﬁciency and to analyze the driving force and the efﬁciency of such dyes with different additional linkers with known dyes. These results provided novel ideas for selecting appropriate spacers or π-linkers, which may increase the efﬁciency of dyes for p-type-DSSCs (Table 1 and Fig. 11). 152 A. Sen O2 O7 O2-i O7-i O2-x O7-x O2-xi O7-xi O2-xii O7-xii Fig. 11 The chargedensity difference plots of the transition from S0 to S1 for the dyes O2, O7 with the four different spacers benzene (i), DTBTZ (x), NDT (xi), and DTQX (xii) in DMF solvent at BMK/6-31+G(d). The isosurface value of 0.0004 a.u. The charge density transfers from green to blue [Reused with permission from Ref. [193], Copyright 2019, American Chemical Society] 6 Conclusion My contributions to the ﬁeld and other research conﬁrm that promising DSSC can be predicted through computational studies much more easily, and such studies help the experimentalists get the perfect design for such dyes for both n- and p-type semi- conductors. Theoretical calculations are one of the most important and simple ways Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  153 Scheme 6. Molecular structures for organic dyes 16 having cyanoacrylic acid as the anchoring group [Reused with permission from Ref. [109], Copyright 2014, American Chemical Society] Scheme 7. Structures of the organic donoracceptor dyes and the different l-linkers investigated in this work [Reused with permission from Ref. [193], Copyright 2019, American Chemical Society] 154 A. Sen to predict new dye sensitizers. Our analyses also showed that organic sensitizers are very important and can be easily calculated much faster than metal-based dyes, and again, different literature supports this phenomenon. Also, the efﬁciency of such new and easy to synthesize, cost-effective organic dyes is very comparable with the low- or high-cost metalorganic sensitizers. In the near future, these organic dyes will have much higher efﬁciency through better design with the help of molecular modeling and through the incorporation of a proper catalyst, we can design a photocatalyst which may help solve energy crisis in the future. Table 1 DFT calculated Light-harvesting efﬁciency (LHE), free energy for the hole injection efﬁciency (ΔGinject), regeneration efﬁciency (ΔGregen), and the unfavorable charge recombination efﬁciency (ΔGCR) are given here. Units are given in parenthesis. [Reused with permission from Ref. [193], Copyright 2019, American Chemical Society] λmax (eV) LHE ΔGinject (eV) ΔGregen (eV) ΔGCR (eV) Q2 2.57 0.970 0.78 0.90 1.79 Q2-i 2.59 0.983 0.77 0.93 1.82 Q2-ii 2.53 0.975 0.85 0.79 1.68 Q2-iii 2.34 0.979 0.86 0.59 1.48 Q2-iv 2.56 0.983 0.51 1.15 2.04 Q2-v 2.35 0.982 0.63 0.83 1.72 Q2-vi 2.44 0.973 0.60 0.95 1.84 Q2-vii 2.33 0.982 0.55 0.89 1.78 Q2-viii 2.31 0.955 0.59 0.83 1.72 Q2-ix 2.30 0.983 0.65 0.76 1.65 Q2-x 2.94 0.985 1.10 0.95 1.84 Q2-xi 2.92 0.991 0.97 1.07 1.96 Q2-xii 2.87 0.985 1.00 0.98 1.87 Q7 2.58 0.974 0.66 1.03 1.92 Q7-i 2.47 0.987 0.62 0.96 1.85 Q7-ii 2.39 0.983 0.72 0.79 1.68 Q7-iii 2.31 0.984 0.77 0.65 1.54 Q7-iv 2.46 0.982 0.35 1.23 2.12 Q7-v 2.29 0.986 0.49 0.92 1.81 Q7-vi 2.33 0.975 0.42 1.02 1.91 Q7-vii 2.26 0.985 0.40 0.97 1.86 Q7-viii 2.18 0.970 0.44 0.84 1.73 Q7-ix 2.23 0.986 0.53 0.81 1.70 Q7-x 2.81 0.987 0.96 0.96 1.85 Q7-xi 2.81 0.992 0.86 1.07 1.96 Q7-xii 2.76 0.986 0.88 0.98 1.87 Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  155 Acknowledgements No one who achieves success does so without acknowledging the help of others. The wise and conﬁdent acknowledge this help with gratitude.Alfred North Whitehead. I am thankful to GITAM (Deemed to be University) and all my colleagues for continuous support and help in my research work. I am also thankful to Dr. Bishwajit Ganguly (PhD supervisor); Prof. Axel Gross (postdoctoral supervisor) and my collaborators, Prof. Amitava Das and Prof. Hirendra Nath Ghosh, with whom much of this work has been performed. I am also very thankful to my loving wife who is always there for me and my parents for always being supportive. I also thank the reviewer and the editors for their comments that have helped improve the chapter better. And ﬁnally, I acknowledge the God Almighty. References 1. Bube RH (1998) Photovoltaic materials. Imperial College Press, London 2. Chung BC, Virshup GF, Schultz JC (2000) Proceedings of the 21st IEEE photovoltaic specialists conference, Kissimee, FL, p 179 3. Gee JM, Virshup GF (1988) Proceedings of the 20th IEEE photovoltaic specialists conference, Las Vegas, NV, p 754 4. Green MA, Emery K, Bucher K, King KL, Igari S (2000) Solar cell efﬁciency tables. Progr Photovolt 8:377 5. Bazilian M, Onyeji I, Liebreich M, MacGill I, Chase J, Shah J, Gielen D, Arent D, Landfear D, Zhengrong S (2013) Re-considering the economics of photovoltaic power. Renew Energy 53:329338 6. Yoo JJ, Wieghold S, Sponseller MC, Chua MR, Bertram SN, Hartono NTP, Tresback JS, Hansen EC, Correa-Baena J-P, Bulovic V, Buonassisi T, Shin SS, Bawendi MG (2019) An interface stabilized perovskite solar cell with high stabilized efﬁciency and low voltage loss. Energy Environ Sci 12:21922199 7. ORegan B, Grätzel M (1991) A low-cost, high-efﬁciency solar cell based on dye-sensitized colloidal TiO2 ﬁlms. Nature 353:737740 8. Hagfeldt A, Boschloo G, Sun L, Kloo L, Peterson H (2010) Dye-sensitized solar cells. Chem Rev 110:65956663 9. Liang M, Chen J (2013) (2013) Arylamine organic dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells. Chem Soc Rev 42:34533488 10. Maggio E, Solomon GC, Troisi A (2014) Exploiting quantum interference in dye sensitized solar cells. ACS Nano 8:409418 11. Brédas JL, Norton JE, Cornil J, Coropceanu V (2009) Molecular understanding of organic solar cells: the challenges. Acc Chem Res 42:16911699 12. Yang J, Ganesan P, Teuscher J, Moehl T, Kim YJ, Yi C et al (2014) Inﬂuence of the donor size in DπA organic dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells. J Am Chem Soc 136:57225730 13. Nguyen WH, Bailie CD, Unger Eva L, McGehee MD (2014) Enhancing the hole-conductivity of Spiro-OMeTAD without oxygen or lithium salts by using Spiro(TFSI)2 in perovskite and dye-sensitized solar cells. J Am Chem Soc 136:1099611001 14. Kang X, Zhang J, ONeil D, Rojas AJ, Chen W, Szymanski P, Marder SR, El-Sayed MA (2014) Effect of molecular structure perturbations on the performance of the DAπA dye sensitized solar cells. Chem Mater 26:44864493 15. Stalder R, Xie D, Islam A, Han L, Reynolds JR, Schanze KS (2014) Panchromatic Donor AcceptorDonor conjugated oligomers for dye-sensitized solar cell applications. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 6:87158722 16. Yella A, Lee HW, Tsao HN, Yi C, Chnadiran AK, Nazeeruddin MK, Diau EW, Yeh CYG, Zakeeruddin SM, Grätzel M (2011) Porphyrin-sensitized solar cells with cobalt (II/III)-based redox electrolyte exceed 12 percent efﬁciency. Science 334:629634 156 A. Sen 17. Ushiroda S, Ruzycki N, Lu Y, Spitler MT, Parkinson BA (2005) Dye sensitization of the anatase (101) crystal surface by a series of dicarboxylated thiacyanine dyes. J Am Chem Soc 127:51585168 18. Li M-H, Yum J-H, Moon S-J, Chen P (2016) Inorganic p-type semiconductors: their applica- tions and progress in dye-sensitized solar cells and perovskite solar cells. Energies 9(5):331 (128) 19. Kudo A, Kato H, Tsuji I (2004) Strategies for the development of visible-light-driven photocatalysts for water splitting. Chem Lett 33:1534 20. Kostedt DJ, Mazyck DW, Lee S-W, Sigmund W, Wu C-Y, Chadik P (2005) Magneti- cally agitated photocatalytic reactor for photocatalytic oxidation of aqueous phase organic pollutants. Environ Sci Technol 39:80528056 21. Tan SS, Zou L, Hu E (2006) Photocatalytic reduction of carbon dioxide into gaseous hydrocarbon using TiO2 pellets. Catal Today 115:269273 22. McCullagh C, Robertson JMC, Bahnemann DW, Robertson PKJ (2007) The application of TiO2 photocatalysis for disinfection of water contaminated with pathogenic micro-organisms: a review. Res Chem Intermed 33(35):359375 23. Hanaor DAH, Sorrell CC (2014) Sand supported mixed-phase TiO2 photocatalysts for water decontamination application. MAdv Eng Mater 16:248254 24. Kovacs T, Pan Q, Lang P, OReilly L, Rau S, Browne WR, Pryce MT, Huijser A, Vos JG (2015) Supramolecular bimetallic assemblies for photocatalytic hydrogen generation from water. Faraday Discuss 185:143170 25. Braumüller M, Schulz M, Sorsche D, Pfeffer M, Schaub M, Popp J, Park B-W, Hagfeldt A, Dietzek B, Rau S (2015) Synthesis and characterization of an immobilizable photochemical molecular device for H2-generation. Dalton Trans 44:55775586 26. Zedler L, Guthmuller J, Rabelo de Moraes I, Kupfer S, Krieck S, Schmitt M, Popp J, Rau S, Dietzek B (2014) Resonance-Raman spectro-electrochemistry of intermediates in molecular artiﬁcial photosynthesis of bimetallic complexes. Chem Comm 50:52275229 27. Pfeffer MG, Kowacs T, Wächtler M, Guthmuller J, Dietzek B, Vos JG, Rau S (2015) Optimization of hydrogen-evolving photochemical molecular devices. Angew Chem Int Ed 54:66276631 28. Pfeffer MG, Schäfer B, Smolentsev G, Uhlig J, Nazarenko E, Guthmuller J, Kuhnt C, Wächtler M, Dietzek B, Sundström V, Rau S (2015) Palladium versus platinum: the metal in the catalytic center of a molecular photocatalyst determines the mechanism of the hydrogen production with visible light. Angew Chem Int Ed 54:50445048 29. Song W, Chen Z, Glasson K, Hanson CRK, Luo H, Norris MR, Ashford DL, Concepcion JJ, Brennaman MK, Meyer T (2012) Interfacial dynamics and solar fuel formation in dye- sensitized photoelectrosynthesis cells. ChemPhysChem 13:2882 30. Youngblood WJ, Lee S, Kobayashi Y, Hernandez-Pagan EA, Hoertz PG, Moore TA, Moore AL, Gust D, Mallouk TE (2009) Photoassisted overall water splitting in a visible light-absorbing dye-sensitized photoelectrochemical cell. J Am Chem Soc 131:926927 31. Brimblecombe R, Koo A, Dismukes GC, Swiegers GF, Spiccia L (2010) Solar driven water oxidation by a bioinspired manganese molecular catalyst. J Am Chem Soc 132:28922894 32. Li L, Duan L, Xu Y, Gorlov M, Hagfeldt A, Sun L (2010) A photoelectrochemical device for visible light driven water splitting by a molecular ruthenium catalyst assembled on dye- sensitized nanostructured TiO2. Chem Commun 46:7307 33. Song W, Brennaman M, Concepcion J, Jurss J, Hoertz P, Luo H, Chen C, Hanson K, Meyer TJ (2011) Interfacial electron transfer dynamics for [Ru(bpy)2((4,4-PO3H2)2bpy)]2+ sensi- tized TiO2 in a dye-sensitized photoelectrosynthesis cell: factors inﬂuencing efﬁciency and dynamics. J Phys Chem C 115:70817091 34. Li F, Fan K, Wang L, Daniel Q, Duan L, Sun L (2015) Immobilizing Ru(bda) catalyst on a photoanode via electrochemical polymerization for light-driven water splitting. ACS Catalysis 5:37863790 35. Wang M, Han K, Zhang S, Sun L (2015) Integration of organometallic complexes with semiconductors and other nanomaterials for photocatalytic H2 production. Coord Chem Rev 287:114 Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  157 36. Yu Z, Li F, Sun L (2015) Recent advances in dye-sensitized photoelectrochemical cells for solar hydrogen production based on molecular components. Energy Environ Sci 8:760775 37. Tong L, Iwase A, Nattestad A, Bach U, Weidelener M, Götz G, Mishra A, Bäuerle P, Amal R, Wallace WGG, Mozer AJ (2012) Sustained solar hydrogen generation using a dye-sensitised NiO photocathode/BiVO4 tandem photo-electrochemical device. Energy Environ Sci 5:9472 9475 38. Li L, Duan L, Wen F, Li CY, Wang M, Hagfeldt A, Sun L (2012) Visible light driven hydrogen production from a photo-active cathode based on a molecular catalyst and organic dye-sensitized p-type nanostructured NiO. Chem Commun 48:988990 39. Ji Z, He M, Huang Z, Ozkan U, Wu Y (2013) Photostable p-type dye-sensitized photoelec- trochemical cells for water reduction. J Am Chem Soc 135:1169611699 40. Shen M, Han A, Wang X, Ro YG, Kargar A, Lin Y, Guo H, Du P, Jiang J, Zhang J, Shadi AD, Xiang B (2015) Atomic scale analysis of the enhanced electro- and photo-catalytic activity in high-index faceted porous NiO nanowires. Sci Rep 5:8557, 16 41. Sharma D, Jha R, Kumar S (2016) Quantum dot sensitized solar cell: recent advances and future perspectives in photoanode. Solar Energy Mater Solar Cells 155:294322 42. Kamat PV (2012) Boosting the efﬁciency of quantum dot sensitized solar cells through modulation of interfacial charge transfer. Acc Chem Res 45:19061915 43. Moon S-J, Itzhaik Y, Yum J-H, Zakeeruddin SM, Hodes G, Grätzel M (2010) Sb2S3-based mesoscopic solar cell using an organic hole conductor. J Phys Chem Lett 1:1524 44. Du J, Du Z, Hu J-S, Pan Z, Shen Q, Sun J, Long D, Dong H, Sun L, Zhong X, Wan L-J (2016) ZnCuInSe quantum dot solar cells with a certiﬁed power conversion efﬁciency of 11.6%. J Am Chem Soc 138:42014209 45. Yu P, Wu J, Gao L, Liu H, Wang Z (2017) InGaAs and GaAs quantum dot solar cells grown by droplet epitaxy. Sol Energy Mater Sol Cells 161:377381 46. Li LL, Diau EWG (2012) Porphyrin-sensitized solar cells. Chem Soc Rev 42:291304 47. Mathew S, Yella A, Gao P, Humphry-Baker R, Curchod BFE, Ashari-Astani N, Taverenelli I, Röthlisberger U, Nazeeruddin MK, Grätzel M (2014) Dye-sensitized solar cells with 13% efﬁciency achieved through the molecular engineering of porphyrin sensitizers. Nat Chem 6:242247 48. Luo J, Xu M, Li R, Huang KW, Jiang C, Qi Q, Zeng W, Zhang J, Chi C, Wang P, Wu J (2014) N-annulated perylene as an efﬁcient electron donor for porphyrin-based dyes: enhanced light- harvesting ability and high-efﬁciency Co(II/III)-based dye-sensitized solar cells. J Am Chem Soc 136:265272 49. Chou CC, Hu F-C, Wu K-L, Duan T, Chi Y, Liu S-H, Lee G-H, Chou P-T (2014) 4,4,5,5- tetracarboxy-2,2-bipyridine Ru(II) aensitizers for dye-sensitized solar cells. Inorg Chem 53:85938599 50. Wang SW, Wu K-L, Ghadiri E, Lobello MG, Ho S-T, Chi Y, Moser J-E, Angelis FD, Grätzel M, Nazeeruddin MK (2013) Unprecedentedly targeted customization of molecular energy levels with auxiliary-groups in organic solar cell sensitizers. Chem Sci 4:24232433 51. Sinn S, Schulze B, Friebe C, Brown DG, Jäger M, Kübel J, Dietzek B, Berlinguette CP, Schu- bert US (2014) A heteroleptic bis(tridentate) ruthenium(II) platform featuring an anionic 1,2,3-triazolate-based ligand for application in the dye-sensitized solar cell. Inorg Chem 5:16371645 52. Wang P, Klein C, Humphry-Baker R, Zakeeruddin SM, Grätzel M (2005) A high molar extinction coefﬁcient sensitizer for stable dye-sensitized solar cells. J Am Chem Soc 127:808 809 53. Swierk JR, McCool NS, Saunders TP, Barber GD, Mallouk TE (2014) Effects of electron trapping and protonation on the efﬁciency of water-splitting dye-sensitized solar cells. J Am Chem Soc 136:1097410982 54. El-Shafei A, Hussain M, Islam A, Han L (2014) Structureproperty relationship of hetero- aromatic-electron-donor antennas of polypyridyl Ru (II) complexes for high efﬁciency dye- sensitized solar cells. Prog Photovolt Res Appl 22:958969 158 A. Sen 55. Cheema H, Islam A, Han L, El-Shafei A (2014) Inﬂuence of number of benzodioxan- stilbazole-based ancillary ligands on dye packing, photovoltage and photocurrent in dye- sensitized solar cells. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 6:1161711624 56. Nazeeruddin MK, Péchy P, Renouard T, Zakeeruddin SM, Humphry-Baker R et al (2001) Engineering of efﬁcient panchromatic sensitizers for nanocrystalline TiO2-based solar cells. J Am Chem Soc 123:16131624 57. Selopal GS, Memarian N, Milan R, Concina I, Sberveglieri G, Vomiero A (2014) Effect of blocking layer to boost photoconversion efﬁciency in ZnO dye-sensitized solar cells. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 6:1123611244 58. Ozawa H, Sugiura T, Shimizu R, Arakawa H (2014) Novel ruthenium sensitizers having different numbers of carboxyl groups for dye-sensitized solar cells: effects of the adsorption manner at the TiO2 surface on the solar cell performance. Inorg Chem 53:93759384 59. Bomben PG, Gordon TJ, Schott E, Berlinguette CP (2011) A trisheteroleptic cyclometalated ruii sensitizer that enables high power output in a dye-sensitized solar cell. Angew Chem Int Ed 50:1068210685 60. BraumüllerM SM, Staniszewska M, Sorsche D, Wunderlin M, Popp J, Guthmuller J, Dietzek B, Rau S (2016) Synthesis and characterization of ruthenium and rhenium dyes with phosphonate anchoring groups. Dalton Trans 45:92169228 61. Odobel F, Pellegrin Y (2013) Recent advances in the sensitization of wide-band-gap nanos- tructured p-type semiconductors. Photovoltaic and photocatalytic applications. J Phys Chem Lett 4:25512564 62. Bachmann C, Probst B, Guttentag M, Alberto R (2014) Ascorbate as an electron relay between an irreversible electron donor and Ru (II) or Re (I) photosensitizers. Chem Commun 50:6737 6739 63. ProbstB,GuttentagM,RodenbergA,HammP,AlbertoR(2011)PhotocatalyticH2 production from water with rhenium and cobalt complexes. Inorg Chem 50:34043412 64. Sekizawa K, Maeda K, Domen K, Koike K, Ishitani O (2013) Artiﬁcial Z-scheme constructed with a supramolecular metal complex and semiconductor for the photocatalytic reduction of CO2. J Am Chem Soc 135:45964599 65. Sahara G, Abe R, Higashi M, Morikawa T, Maeda K, Ueda Y, Ishitani O (2015) Photoelec- trochemical CO2 reduction using a Ru (ii)Re (i) multinuclear metal complex on a p-type semiconducting NiO electrode. Chem Commun 51:1072210725 66. Yang M, Thopson DW, Meyer GJ (2002) Charge-transfer studies of iron cyano compounds bound to nanocrystalline TiO2 surfaces. Inorg Chem 41:12541262 67. Kar P, Verma S, Sen A, Das A, Ganguly B, Ghosh HN (2010) (2010) Sensitization of nanocrystalline TiO2 anchored with pendant catechol functionality using a new tetracyanato Ruthenium(II) polypyridyl complex. Inorg Chem 49:41674174 68. Kar P, Banerjee T, Verma S, Sen A, Das A, Ganguly B, Ghosh HN (2012) Photosensitization of nanoparticulate TiO2 using a Re(i)-polypyridyl complex: studies on interfacial electron transfer in the ultrafast time domain. Phys Chem Chem Phys 14:81928198 69. Miller RJD, McLendon GL, Nozik AJ, Schmickler W, Willig F (1995) Surface electron- transfer processes. Wiley-VCH 70. Nozik AJ, Memming R (1996) Physical chemistry of semiconductorliquid interfaces. J Phys Chem 100:1306113078 71. Hagfeldt A, Gratzel M (1995) Light-induced redox reactions in nanocrystalline systems. Chem Rev 95:4968 72. Kalyansundaram K, Gratzel M (1998) Applications of functionalized transition metal complexes in photonic and optoelectronic devices. Coord Chem Rev 77:347414 73. Nazeeruddin MK, Humphry-Baker R, Gratzel M, Murrer BA (1998) Efﬁcient near IR sensitization of nanocrystalline TiO2 ﬁlms by ruthenium phthalocyanines. Chem Commun 719720 74. Reynal A, Forneli A, Martinez-Ferrero E, Sanchez-Diaz A, Vidal-Ferran A, ORegan BC, Palomares E (2008) Interfacial charge recombination between eTiO2 and the I/I3elec- trolyte in ruthenium heteroleptic complexes: dye molecular structureopen circuit voltage relationship. J Am Chem Soc 130:1355813567 Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  159 75. KuciauskasD,MonatJ,VillahermosaER,GrayHB,LewisNS,McCuskerJK(2002)Transient absorption spectroscopy of ruthenium and osmium polypyridyl complexes adsorbed onto nanocrystalline TiO2 photoelectrodes. J Phys Chem B 106:93479358 76. Atobello S, Argazzi R, Caramori S, Contado C, Da SF, Rubino P, Chone C, Larramona G, Bignozzi CA (2005) Sensitization of nanocrystalline TiO2 with black absorbers based on Os and Ru polypyridine complexes. J Am Chem Soc 127:1534215343 77. Tachibana Y, Moser JE, Gratzel M, Klug DR, Durrant JR (1996) Subpicosecond interfa- cial charge separation in dye-sensitized nanocrystalline titanium dioxide ﬁlms. J Phys Chem 100:2005620062 78. Dillon RJ, Alibabaei L, Meyer TJ, Papanikolas JM (2017) Enabling efﬁcient creation of long- lived charge-separation on dye-sensitized NiO photocathodes. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 9:2678626796 79. Mori S, Fukuda S, Sumikura S, Takeda Y, Tamaki Y, Suzuki E, Abe T (2008) Charge-transfer processes in dye-sensitized NiO solar cells. J Phys Chem C 112:1613416139 80. Alidoust N, Toroker MC, Carter EA (2014) Revisiting photoemission and inverse photoemis- sion spectra of nickel oxide from ﬁrst principles: implications for solar energy conversion. J Phys Chem B 118:79637971 81. Qin P, Wiberg J, Gibson EA, Linder M, Li L, Brinck T, Hagfeldt A, Albinsson B, Sun L (2010) Synthesis and mechanistic studies of organic chromophores with different energy levels for p-type dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem C 114:47384748 82. Bonomo M, Barbero N, Matteocci F, Carlo AD, Barolo C, Dini D (2016) Beneﬁcial effect of electron-withdrawing groups on the sensitizing action of squaraines for p-type dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem C 120:1634016353 83. Yum JH, Baranoff E, Kessler F, Moehl T, Ahmad S, Bessho T, Marchioro A, Ghadiri E, Moser JE, Yi C, Nazeeruddin MK, Grätzel M (2012) A cobalt complex redox shuttle for dye-sensitized solar cells with high open-circuit potentials. Nat Commun 3:631(18) 84. Ambrosio FF, Martsinovich N, Troisi A (2012) Effect of the anchoring group on electron injection: theoretical study of phosphonated dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem C 116:26222629 85. Shinpuku Y, Inui F, Nakai M, Nakabayashi Y (2011) Synthesis and characterization of novel cyclometalated iridium (III) complexes for nanocrystalline TiO2-based dye-sensitized solar cells. J Photochem Photobio A Chem 222:203209 86. Karmakar AS, Ruparelia JP (2011) A critical review on dye sensitized solar cells. In: International conference on current trends in engineering and technology, NUiCONE 87. Wayment-Steele HK, Johnson LE, Tian F, Dixon MC, Benz L, Johal MS (2014) Monitoring N3 dye adsorption and desorption on TiO2 surfaces: a combined QCM-D and XPS study. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 6:90939099 88. Zhang Q, Chow TP, Russo B, Jenekhe SA, Cao G (2008) Aggregation of ZnO nanocrystallites for high conversion efﬁciency in dye-sensitized solar cells. Angew Chem Int Ed 120:2436 2440 89. Nazeeruddin MK, Kay A, Rodicio I, Humphry-Baker R, Mueller E, Liska P, Vlachopoulos N, Gratzel M (1993) Conversion of light to electricity by cis-X2bis(2,2-bipyridyl-4,4- dicarboxylate)ruthenium(II) charge-transfer sensitizers (X = Cl-, Br-, I-, CN-, and SCN-) on nanocrystalline titanium dioxide electrodes. J Am Chem Soc 115:63826390 90. Cai C-Y, Tseng S-K, Kuo M, Lin K-YA, Yang H, Lee R-H (2015) Photovoltaic performance of a N719 dye based dye-sensitized solar cell with transparent macroporous anti-ultraviolet photonic crystal coatings. RSC Adv 5:102803102810 91. Liu S-H, Fu H, Cheng Y-M, Wu K-L, Ho S-T, Chi Y, Chou P-T (2012) Theoretical study of N749 dyes anchoring on the (TiO2)28 surface in DSSCs and their electronic absorption properties. J Phys Chem C 116(31):1633816345 92. Al-Dmour H, Alzard RH, Alblooshi H, Alhosani K, AlMadhoob S, Saleh N (2019) Enhanced energy conversion of Z907-based solar cells by Cucurbit[7]uril macrocycles. Front Chem 7:561 160 A. Sen 93. Li G, Yella A, Brown DG, Gorelsky SI, Nazeeruddin MK, Grätzel M, Berlinguette CP, Shatruk M (2014) Near-IR photoresponse of ruthenium dipyrrinate terpyridine sensitizers in the dye- sensitized solar cells. Inorg Chem 53:54175419 94. Park J, Viscardi G, Barolo C, Barbero N (2013) Near-infrared sensitization in dye-sensitized solar cells. Chimia 67:129135 95. Kinoshita T, Fujisawa J-I, JotaroNakazaki SU, Kubo T, Segawa H (2012) Enhancement of near-IR photoelectric conversion in dye-sensitized solar cells using an osmium sensitizer with strong spin-forbidden transition. J Phys Chem Lett 3:394398 96. Onozawa-Komatsuzaki N, Yanagida M, Funaki T, Kasuga K, Sayama K, Sugihara H (2011) Near IR dye-sensitized solar cells using a new type of ruthenium complexes having 2,6-bis (quinolin-2-yl) pyridine derivatives. Sol Ene Mat Sol Cells 95:310314 97. White RC, Benedetti JE, Gonclaves AD, Romão W, Vaz BG, Eberlin MN, Correia CRD, Paoli MAD, Nogueira AF (2011) Synthesis, characterization and introduction of a new ion- coordinating ruthenium sensitizer dye in quasi-solid state TiO2 solar cells. J Photochem Photobio A Chem 222:185191 98. Argazzi R, Larramona G, Contado C, Bignozzi CA (2003) Preparation and photoelectro- chemical characterization of a red sensitive osmium complex containing 4,4,4-tricarboxy- 2,2:6,2-terpyridine and cyanide ligands. J Photochem Photobio A Chem 164:1521 99. Zabri H, Odobel F, Altobello S, Caramori S, Bignozzi CA (2004) Efﬁcient osmium sensitizers containing 2,2-bipyridine-4,4-bisphosphonic acid ligand. J Photochem Phtobio A Chem 166:99106 100. Mukherjee S, Bowman DN, Jakubikova E (2015) Cyclometalated Fe (II) complexes as sensitizers in dye-sensitized solar cells. Inorg Chem 54:560569 101. Harlang TCB, Liu Y, Gordivska O et al (2015) Iron sensitizer converts light to electrons with 92% yield. Nat Chem 7:883889 102. Constable EC, Housecroft CE, Neuburger M, Schönlea J, Zampese JA (2014) The surprising lability of bis (2, 2:6,2-terpyridine) chromium (iii) complexes. Dalton Trans 43:72277235 103. Vuong S, Nguyen-Dang H-M, Tran QT, Luong TTT, Pham TTT, Nguyen-Tran T (2017) Fabrication of copper(I) bipyridyl complex based dye sensitized solar cells. J Electron Mater 48:36393645 104. Yella A, Lee HW, Tsao HN, Yi C, Chandiran AK, Nazeeruddin MK, Diau EW, Yeh CY, Zakeeruddin SM, Grätzel M (2011) Porphyrin-sensitized solar cells with Cobalt (II/III)based redox electrolyte exceed 12 percent efﬁciency. Science 334:629634 105. Mathew S, Yella A, Gao P, Humphry-Baker R, Curchod BFE, Ashari-Astani N, Tavernelli I, Rothlisberger U, Nazeeruddin MK, Grätzel M (2016) Dye-sensitized solar cells with 13% efﬁciency achieved through the molecular engineering of porphyrin sensitizers. Nat Chem 6:242247 106. Yuan YJ, Lu HW, Tu JR, Fang Y, Yu ZT, Fan XX, Zou ZG (2015) A noble-metal-free Nickel(II) polypyridyl catalyst for visible-light-driven hydrogen production from water. Chem Phys Chem 16:29253293 107. Sánchez-de-Armas R, Miguel MAS, Oviedo J, Sanz JF (2012) Coumarin derivatives for dye sensitized solar cells: a TD-DFT study. Phys Chem Chem Phys 14:225233 108. Mishra A, Fischer MKR, Bäuerle P (2009) Metal-free organic dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells: from structure: property relationships to design rules. Angew Chem Int Ed 48:2474 2499 109. Biswas AK, Barik S, Sen A, Das A, Ganguly B (2014) Design of efﬁcient metal-free organic dyes having an azacyclazine scaffold as the donor fragment for dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem C 118:2076320771 110. Abbotto A, Manfredi N, Marinzi C, Angelis FD, Mosconi E, Yum JH, Xanxi Z, Nazeeruddin MK, Grätzel M (2009) Di-branched di-anchoring organic dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells. Energy Environ Sci 2:10941101 111. Li P, Wang Z, Song C, Zhang H (2017) Rigid fused π-spacers in DπA type molecules for dye-sensitized solar cells: a computational investigation. J Mater Chem C 5:1145411465 Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  161 112. Hagberg DP, Edvinsson T, Mariando T, Boschloo G, Hagfeldt A, Sun L (2006) A novel organic chromophore for dye-sensitized nanostructured solar cells. Chem Comm 22452247 113. Yao Z, Zhang M, Wu H, Wang L, Li R, Wang P (2015) Donor/acceptor indenoperylene dye for highly efﬁcient organic dye-sensitized solar cells. J Am Chem Soc 137:37993802 114. Qian X, Shao L, Li H, Yan R, Wang X, Hou L (2016) Indolo [3, 2-b] carbazole-based multi- donorπacceptor type organic dyes for highly efﬁcient dye-sensitized solar cells. J Power Sources 319:3947 115. Hinkel F, Kim YM, Zagraniarsky Y, Schlütter F, Andrienko D, Müllen K, Laquai F (2018) Efﬁciency-limiting processes in cyclopentadithiophene-bridged donor-acceptor-type dyes for solid-state dye-sensitized solar cells. J Chem Phys 148:044703 116. Cai-Rong Z, Zi-Jiang L, Yu-Hong C, Hong-Shan C, You-Zhi W, Li-Hua Y (2009) DFT and TDDFT study on organic dye sensitizers D5, DST and DSS for solar cells. J Mol Struct: THEOCHEM 899:8693 117. He L-J, Chen J, Bai F-Q, Jia R, Wang J, Zhang H-X (2017) Fine-tuning π-spacer for high efﬁciency performance DSSC: a theoretical exploration with D-π-A based organic dye. Dyes Pigm 141:251261 118. Ni J-S, Yen Y-C, Lin LJT (2016) Organic sensitizers with a rigid dithienobenzotriazole-based spacer for high-performance dye-sensitized solar cells. J Mater Chem A 4:65536560 119. Xia H-Q, Wang J, Bai F-Q, Zhang H-X (2015) Theoretical studies of electronic and optical properties of the triphenylamine-based organic dyes with diketopyrrolopyrrole chromophore. Dyes Pigm 113:8795 120. Biswas AK, Das A, Ganguly B (2016) Can fused-pyrrole rings act as better π-spacer units than fused-thiophene in dye-sensitized solar cells? A computational study. New J Chem 40:93049312 121. Matta SK, Kakiage K, Makuta S, Veamatahau A, Aoyama Y, Yano T, Hanaya M, Tachibana Y (2014) Dye-anchoring functional groups on the performance of dye-sensitized solar cells: comparison between alkoxysilyl and carboxyl groups. J Phys Chem C 118:2842528434 122. Ganesan P, Yella A, Holcombe TW, Gao P, Rajalingam R, Al-Muhtaseb SA, Grätzel M, Nazeeruddin MK (2015) Unravel the impact of anchoring groups on the photovoltaic perfor- mances of diketopyrrolopyrrole sensitizers for dye-sensitized solar cells. ACS Sustain Chem Eng 3:23892396 123. Fernandes SSM, Castro MCR, Pereire AI, Mendes A, Serpa C, Pina J, Justino Burrows HD, Raposo MMM (2017) Optical and photovoltaic properties of Thieno[3,2-b]thiophene-based push-pull organic dyes with different anchoring groups for dye-sensitized solar cells. ACS Omega 2:92689279 124. Reginato G, Calamante M, Zani L, Mordini A, Franchi D (2018) Design and synthesis of organic sensitizers with enhanced anchoring stability in dye-sensitized solar cells. Pure Appl Chem 90:363376 125. Ji Z, Natu G, Huang Z, Wu Y (2011) Linker effect in organic donoracceptor dyes for p-type NiO dye sensitized solar cells. Energy Environ Sci 4:28182821 126. Qin P, Linder M, Brink T, Boschloo G, Hagfeldt A, Sun L (2009) High incident photon-to- current conversion efﬁciency of p-type dye-sensitized solar cells based on NiO and organic chromophores. Adv Mater 21:29932996 127. Qin P, Zhu T, Edvinsson T, Boschloo G, Hagfeldt A, Sun L (2008) Design of an organic chromophore for p-type dye-sensitized solar cells. J Am Chem Soc 130:85708571 128. Kitamura T, Ikeda M, Shigaki K, Inoue T, Anderson NA, Ai X, Lian T, Yanagida S (2004) Phenyl-conjugated oligoene sensitizers for TiO2 solar cells. Chem Mater 16:18061812 129. Tian H, Yang X, Chen R, Zhang R, Hagfeldt A, Sun L (2008) Effect of different dye baths and dye-structures on the performance of dye-sensitized solar cells based on triphenylamine dyes. J Phys Chem C 112:1102311033 130. Zhang G, Bai Y, Li R, Shi D, Wenger S, Zakeeruddin SM, Grätzel M, Wang P (2009) Employ a bisthienothiophene linker to construct an organic chromophore for efﬁcient and stable dye- sensitized solar cells. Energy Environ Sci 2:9295 162 A. Sen 131. Yum J-H, Hagber DP, Moon S-J, Karlsson KM, Marinado T, Sun L, Hagfeldt A, Nazeeruddin MK, Grätzel M (2009) A light-resistant organic sensitizer for solar-cell applications. Angew Chem Int Ed 121:16041608 132. Yao Z, Yang L, Cai Y, Yan C, Zhang M, Cai N, Dong X, Wang P (2014) J Phys Chem C 118:29772986 133. Shi J, Chai Z, Tang R, Li H, Han H, Peng T, Li Q, Li Z (2016) Effect of electron-withdrawing groups in conjugated bridges: molecular engineering of organic sensitizers for dye-sensitized solar cells. Front Optoelectron 9:6070 134. Joly D, Pellejá L, Narbey S, Oswald F, Meyer T, Kervella Y, Maldivi P, Clifford JN, Palomares E, Demadrille R (2015) Metal-free organic sensitizers with narrow absorption in the visible for solar cells exceeding 10% efﬁciency. Ener Environ Sci 8:20102018 135. Pei K, Wu Y, Islam A, Zhang Q, Han L, Tian H, Zhu W (2013) Constructing high-efﬁciency D AπA-featured solar cell sensitizers: a promising building block of 2,3-diphenylquinoxaline for antiaggregation and photostability. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 5:49864995 136. He J, Lindström H, Hagfeldt A, Londquist S-E (1999) Dye-sensitized nanostructured p-type nickel oxide ﬁlm as a photocathode for a solar cell. J Phys Chem B 103:89408943 137. Chai Z, Wu M, Fang M, Wan S, Xu T, Tang R, Xie Y, Mei A, Han H, Li Q, Li Z (2015) Similar or totally different: the adjustment of the twist conformation through minor structural modi- ﬁcation, and dramatically improved performance for dye-sensitized solar cell. Adv Energy Mater 5:1500846 138. Haid S, Marszalek M, Mishra A, Wielopolski M, Teuscher J, Moser JE, Humphry-Baker R, Zakeeruddin SM, Grätzel M, Bäuerle P (2012) Signiﬁcant improvement of dye-sensitized solar cell performance by small structural modiﬁcation in π-conjugated donor-acceptor dyes. Adv Funct Mater 22:12911302 139. Morandeira A, Boschloo G, Hagfeldt A, Hammerström L (2008) Coumarin 343NiO ﬁlms as nanostructured photocathodes in dye-sensitized solar cells: ultrafast electron transfer, effect of the I3/Iredox couple and mechanism of photocurrent generation. J Phys Chem C 112:95309537 140. Morandeira A, Boschloo G, Hagfeldt A, Hammerström L (2005) Photoinduced ultrafast dynamics of coumarin 343 sensitized p-type-nanostructured NiO ﬁlms. J Phys Chem B 109:1940319410 141. Zhu H, Hagfeldt A, Boschloo G (2007) Photoelectrochemistry of mesoporous NiO electrodes in iodide/tri-iodide electrolytes. J Phys Chem C 111:1745517458 142. Morandeira A, Fortage J, Edvinsson T, Le Pleux L, Blart E, Boschloo G, Hagfeldt A, Hammerström L, Odobel F (2008) Improved photon-to-current conversion efﬁciency with a nanoporous p-type NiO electrode by the use of a sensitizer-acceptor dyad. J Phys Chem C 112:17211728 143. Gibson EA, Smeigh AL, Le Pleux L, Fortage J, Boschloo G, Blart E, Pellegrin Y, Odobel F, Hagfeldt A, Hammarström L (2009) A p-type NiO-based dye-sensitized solar cell with an open-circuit voltage of 0.35 V. Angew Chem Int Ed 48:44024405 144. Borgstrom M, Blart E, Boschloo G, Mukhtar E, Hagfeldt A, Hammerström L, Odobel F (2005) Sensitized hole injection of phosphorus porphyrin into NiO: toward new photovoltaic devices. J Phys Chem B 109:2292822934 145. Muñoz-García AB, Pavone M (2015) Structure and energy level alignment at the dyeelec- trode interface in p-type DSSCs: new hints on the role of anchoring modes from ab initio calculations. Phys Chem Chem Phys 17:1223812246 146. Zhang L, Cole JM (2015) Anchoring groups for dye-sensitized solar cells. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 7:34273455 147. Iqbal Z, Wu W-Q, Zhang H, Hua P-L, Fang X, Kuang D-B, Wang L, Meier H, Cao D (2013) Impact of hydroxy and octyloxy substituents of phenothiazine based dyes on the photovoltaic performance. Dyes Pigm 99:299307 148. Guerrero G, Alauzun JG, Granier M, Laurencin D, Mutin PH (2013) Phosphonate coupling molecules for the control of surface/interface properties and the synthesis of nanomaterials. Dalton Trans 42:1256912585 Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  163 149. Cherepy NJ, Smestad GP, Grätzel M, Zhang JZ (1997) Ultrafast electron injection: implications for a photoelectrochemical cell utilizing an anthocyanin dye-sensitized TiO2 nanocrystalline electrode. J Phys Chem B 101:93429351 150. Jayaweera PM, Kumarasinghe AR (1999) Tennakone K Nano-porous TiO2 photovoltaic cells sensitized with metallochromic triphenylmethane dyes: [n-TiO2/triphenylmethane dye/p-I/I3(or CuI)]. J Photochem Photobiol A Chem 126:111115 151. Ooyama Y, Inoue S, Nagano T, Kushimoto K, Ohshita J, Imae I, Komaguchi K, Harima Y (2011) Dye-sensitized solar cells based on donoracceptor πconjugated ﬂuorescent dyes with a pyridine ring as an electron-withdrawing anchoring group. Angew Chem Int Ed 123:75677571 152. Cui J, Lu J, Xu X, Cao K, Wang Z, Alemu G, Yuang H, Shen Y, Xu J, Cheng Y, Wang M (2014) Organic sensitizers with pyridine ring anchoring group for p-type dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem C 118:1643316440 153. Heimer TA, DArcangelis ST, Farzad F, Stipkala JM, Meyer GJ (1996) An acetylacetonate- based semiconductorsensitizer linkage. Inorg Chem 35:53195324 154. Xiao D, Martini LA, Snoeberger RC III, Crabtree RH, Batista VS (2011) Inverse design and synthesis of acac-coumarin anchors for robust TiO2 sensitization. J Am Chem Soc 133:9014 9022 155. Warnan J, Guerin VM, Anne FB, Pellegrin Y, Blart E, Jacquemin D, Pauporté T, Odobel F (2013) Ruthenium sensitizer functionalized by acetylacetone anchoring groups for dye- sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem C 117:86528660 156. McNamara WR, Snoeberger III RC, Li G, Schleicher JM, Cady CW, Poyatos M, Schmutten- maer CA, Crabtree RH, Brudvig GW, Batista VS (2008) Acetylacetonate anchors for robust functionalization of TiO2 nanoparticles with Mn(II)terpyridine complexes. J Am Chem Soc 130:1432914338 157. Warnan J, Pellegrin Y, Blart E, Zhang L, Brown A, Hammarström L, Jacquemin D, Odobel F (2014) Acetylacetone anchoring group for NiO-based dye-sensitized solar cell. Dyes Pigm 105:174179 158. Pellegrin Y, Le Pleux L, Blart E, Renaud A, Chavillon B, Szuwarski N, Boujtita M, Cario L, Jobic S, Jacquemin D, Odobel F (2011) Ruthenium polypyridine complexes as sensitizers in NiO based p-type dye-sensitized solar cells: effects of the anchoring groups. J Photochem Photobiol A Chem 219:235242 159. Arbouch I, Cornil D, Karzazi Y, Hammouti B, Lazzaroni R, Cornil J (2017) Inﬂuence of the nature of the anchoring group on electron injection processes at dyetitania interfaces. Phys Chem Chem Phys 19:2938929401 160. Tang J, Qu S, Hu J, Wu W, Hua J (2012) A new organic dye bearing aldehyde electron- withdrawing group for dye-sensitized solar cell. Sol Energy 86:23062311 161. Ooyama Y, Hagiwara Y, Oda Y, Mizumo T, Harima Y, Ohshita J (2013) Dye-sensitized solar cells based on a functionally separated DπA ﬂuorescent dye with an aldehyde as an electron-accepting group. New J Chem 37:23362340 162. Gou F, Jiang X, Li B, Jing H, Zhu Z (2013) Salicylic acid as a tridentate anchoring group for azo-bridged zinc porphyrin in dye-sensitized solar cells. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 5:12631 12637 163. Gou F, Jiang X, Fang R, Jing H, Zhu Z (2014) Strategy to improve photovoltaic performance of DSSC sensitized by zinc prophyrin using salicylic acid as a tridentate anchoring group. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 6:66976703 164. Zhang L, Cole JM, Dai C (2014) Variation in optoelectronic properties of azo dye-sensitized TiO2 semiconductor interfaces with different adsorption anchors: carboxylate, sulfonate, hydroxyl and pyridyl groups. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 6:75357546 165. Wang ZS, Li FY, Huang CH (2000) Highly efﬁcient sensitization of nanocrystalline TiO2 ﬁlms with styryl benzothiazoliumpropylsulfonate. Chem Commun 20:20632064 166. Yao QH, Shan L, Li FY, Yin DD, Huang CH (2003) An expanded conjugation photosensitizer with two different adsorbing groups for solar cells. New J Chem 27:12771283 164 A. Sen 167. Cong J, Yang X, Liu J, Zhao J, Hao Y, Wang Y, Sun L (2012) Nitro group as a new anchoring group for organic dyes in dye-sensitized solar cells. Chem Commun 48:66636665 168. Brewster TP, Konezny SJ, Sheehan SW, Martini LA, Schmuttenmaer CA, Batista VS, Crabtree RH (2013) Hydroxamate anchors for improved photoconversion in dye-sensitized solar cells. Inorg Chem 52:67526764 169. McNamara WR, Snoeberger RC III, Li G, Richter C, Allen LJ, Milot RL, Schmuttenmaer CA, Crabtree RH, Brudvig GW, Batista VS (2009) Hydroxamate anchors for water-stable attachment to TiO2 nanoparticles. Energy Environ Sci 2:11731175 170. McNamara WR, Milot RL, Song H, Snoeberger RC III, Batista VS, Schmuttenmaer CA, Brudvig GW, Crabtree RH (2010) Water-stable, hydroxamate anchors for functionalization of TiO2 surfaces with ultrafast interfacial electron transfer. Energy Environ Sci 3:917923 171. Li SF, Yang XC, Cheng M, Zhao JH, Wang Y, Sun LC (2012) Novel DπA type II organic sensitizers for dye sensitized solar cells. Tetrahedron Lett 53:34253428 172. Tae EL, Lee SH, Lee JK, Yoo SS, Kang EJ, Yoon KB (2005) A strategy to increase the efﬁciency of the dye-sensitized TiO2 solar cells operated by photoexcitation of dye-to-TiO2 charge-transfer bands. J Phys Chem B 109:2251322522 173. Kaniyankandy S, Rawalekar S, Sen A, Ganguly B, Ghosh HN (2012) Does bridging geometry inﬂuence interfacial electron transfer dynamics? Case of the enediol-TiO2 system. J Phys Chem C 116:98103 174. Mariando T, Nonomura K, Nissfoul J, Karlsson MK, Hagberg DP, Sun L, Mori S, Hagfeldt A (2009) How the nature of triphenylamine-polyene dyes in dye-sensitized solar cells affects the open-circuit voltage and electron lifetimes. Langmuir 26:25922598 175. Sen A, Gross A (2019) Promising sensitizers for dye sensitized solar cells: a comparison of Ru(II) with other earths scarce and abundant metal polypyridine complexes. Int J Quantum Chem 119:e25963 176. Hamann TW (2012) The end of iodide? Cobalt complex redox shuttles in DSSCs. Dalton Trans 41:31113115 177. Sun ZZ, Zheng KM, Li Q-S, Li Z-S (2014) Rational design of Co-based redox mediators for dye-sensitized solar cells by density functional theory. RSC Adv 4:3154431551 178. Miller RJD, McLendon GL, Nozik AJ, Schmickler W, Willig F (1995) Surface electron- transfer processes. VCH 179. Salassa L, Garino C, Albertino A, Volpi G, Nervi C, Gobetto R, Hardcastle KI (2008) Computational and spectroscopic studies of new Rhenium(I) complexes containing Pyridylimidazo[1,5-a]pyridine ligands: charge transfer and dual emission by ﬁne-tuning of excited states. Organometallics 27:14271435 180. Reynal A, Forneli A, Martinez-Ferrero E, Sánchez-Díaz A, Vidal-Ferran A, ORegan BC, Palomares E (2008) Interfacial charge recombination between eTiO2 and the I/I3elec- trolyte in ruthenium heteroleptic complexes: dye molecular structureopen circuit voltage relationship. J Am Chem Soc 130:1355813567 181. Ji Z, He M, Huang Z, Ozkan U, Wu Y (2013) Photostable p-type dye-sensitized photoelec- trochemical cells for water reduction. J Am Chem Soc 135:1169611699 182. Dillon RJ, Alibabaei L, Meyer TJJM (2017) Enabling efﬁcient creation of long-lived charge- separation on dye-sensitized NiO photocathodes. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 9:2678626796 183. Polo AS, Itokazu MK, Iha NYM (2004) Metal complex sensitizers in dye-sensitized solar cells. Coord Chem Rev 248:13431361 184. Argazzi R, Larramona G, Contado C, Bignozzi CA (2003) Preparation and photoelectro- chemical characterization of a red sensitive osmium complex containing 4,4,4-tricarboxy- 2,2:6,2-terpyridine and cyanide ligands. J Photochem Photobio A: Chem 164:1521 185. Shinpuku Y, Inui F, Nakai M, Nakabayashi Y (2011) Synthesis and characterization of novel cyclometalated iridium(III) complexes for nanocrystalline TiO2-based dye-sensitized solar cells. J Photochem Photobio A Chem 222, 203 186. Bourouina A, Rekhis M (2017) Structural and electronic study of iron-based dye sensitizers for solar cells using DFT/TDDFT. J Mol Model 310:1 Promising DSSCs Involving Organic DπA and Similar Structures  165 187. Tsaturyan AA, Shecherbakov IN, Shvydko TV, Kogan VA (2017) Iron(II) and ruthenium(II) complexes with polypyridine derivatives as sensitizers for DSSC: the structure and spectral properties, as studied by quantum chemistry methods. Russ Chem Bull 66:2329 188. Bozic-Weber B, Chaurin V, Constable EC, Housecroft CE, Meuwly M, Neuburger M, Rudd JA, Schönhofer E, Siegfried L (2012) Exploring copper (i)-based dye-sensitized solar cells: a complementary experimental and TD-DFT investigation. Dalton Trans 41:14157 189. Yang L-N, Sun Z-Z, Chen S-L, Li Z-S (2013) The effects of various anchoring groups on optical and electronic properties of dyes in dye-sensitized solar cells. Dyes Pigm 99:2935 190. Duncan WR, Prezhdo OV (2005) Electronic structure and spectra of catechol and alizarin in the gas phase and attached to titanium. J Phys Chem B 109:365373 191. Redfern PC, Zapol P, Curtiss LA, Rajh T, Thurnauer MC (2003) Computational studies of catechol and water interactions with titanium oxide nanoparticles. J Phys Chem B 107:11419 11427 192. Nogueira AF, Fernando L, Furtado O, Formiga ALB, Nakamura M, Araki K, Toma HE (2004) Sensitization of TiO2 by supramolecules containing zinc porphyrins and rutheniumpolypyridyl complexes. Inorg Chem 43:396398 193. Sen A, Gross A (2019) Does involving additional linker always increase the efﬁciency of an organic dye for p-type dye-sensitized solar cells? ACS Appl Energy Mater 2:63416347 194. ChoiH,HwangT,LeeS,NamS,KangJ,LeeB,ParkB(2015)Theconstructionoftandemdye- sensitized solar cells from chemically-derived nanoporous photoelectrodes. J Power Sources 274:937942 195. Nattestad A, Mozer AJ, Fischer MKR, Cheng Y-B, Mishra A, Bäuerle P, Bach U (2010) Highly efﬁcient photocathodes for dye-sensitized tandem solar cells. Nat Mater 9:3135 196. Nakasa A, Usami H, Sumikura S, Hasegawa S, Koyama T, Suzuki E (2005) A high voltage dye-sensitized solar cell using a nanoporous NiO photocathode. Chem Lett 34:500501 Application of QSPR Modeling in Designing and Prediction of Power Conversion-Efﬁcient Solar Cell Supratik Kar, Juganta K. Roy, and Jerzy Leszczynski Abstract The advancement of technology and industrialization demands clean, economic,andreliableenergysourcesthatcanbefulﬁlledbyhigh-volumeandpower- efﬁcient production of solar cells. To speed up the solar cell development process in a rational way, in the last decade, molecular modeling and machine learning (ML) have shown enough potential to accomplish this task. Especially, quantita- tive structureproperty relationships (QSPRs) modeling has reported designing of promising lead components for diverse solar cell systems with higher power conver- sion efﬁciency (%PCE) than the existing ones. Until now, most of the QSPR models have been employed for dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) and polymer solar cells (PSCs) followed by designing acceptor and donor components of these systems. But this chapter also encourages the future application of QSPR for quantum dot solar devices (QDSCs), perovskite solar cells to improve their efﬁciency further. The present chapter deals with the role of QSPR modeling in solar cells and discusses how QSPR can be implemented in solar cell designing as well as the virtual screening of materials databases. Additionally, solar cell databases and preparation of webserver for future prediction of %PCE, along with other photophysical parameters, are metic- ulously discussed to provide an easy start for the beginners. Successful QSPR models for DSSCs and PSCs are also illustrated with detailed modeling information followed by mechanistic introspection. 1 Introduction The high demand for energy consumption and limited fossil energy resources forced fast-track research on renewable energy [1]. The incident solar energy on earth per hour exceeds the current consumption of the energy of the world per year. Therefore, efﬁcient solar energy conversion provides promising technology for balancing the S. Kar  J. K. Roy  J. Leszczynski (B) Interdisciplinary Center for Nanotoxicity, Department of Chemistry, Physics and Atmospheric Sciences, Jackson State University, Jackson 39217, USA e-mail: jerzy@icnanotox.org  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021 J. K. Roy et al. (eds.), Development of Solar Cells, Challenges and Advances in Computational Chemistry and Physics 32, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-69445-6_7 167 168 S. Kar et al. increasing energy demand due to fast industrial development [2]. Two of the general approaches to solar energy conversion are (1) direct solar energy-to-electricity conversion through solar cells and (2) solar energy-to-chemical fuel conversion. Industrial photovoltaic cells are made of monocrystalline silicon, polycrystalline silicon, amorphous silicon, cadmium telluride, copper indium selenide/sulﬁde, or GaAs-based multi-junction material systems. The efﬁciencies of these devices are as high as 25% [3]. The possibility to use tools based on molecular components for the construction of large-scale solar electricity production facilities turned from utopic to real after ORegan and Grätzel reported in 1991 the invention of their efﬁcient dye-sensitized solar cell [4]. Emerging research topics and pre-industrial technology in solar cells, which involve light-absorbing dyes in the form of dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs), quantum dot solar devices (QDSCs), and polymer solar cells (PSCs) (fullerene and non-fullerene derivatives as acceptor molecule for PSC), are still far below the performance of silicon devices, with the highest state-of-the-art efﬁciency around 13% for DSSC. Ruthenium- [5] and Zn-based DSSCs reported %PCE of 13% [6] experimentally, while organic-metal free dyes (triazatruxene (TAT)-based DπA dye) achieve %PCE of 13.6% [7], which is the highest experimentally reported value at present. The estimated theoretical QDSC performance is close to that of silicon-based devices; however, at present, record efﬁciencies amount to 4.5% [8]. The achieved power conversion efﬁciency of 5% so far is still below the perfect p-type material in the case of polymer solar cells [9]. A recent review claims that relevant future materialsandtechnologyhavethepotentialtoguidetheefﬁciencyoforganic/polymer solar cells to a 10% regime [10]. Despite the present low efﬁciency and stability, organic solar cell applications are intensively studied due to the potentially low cost of production [9, 11]. At present, the DSSC [4] and Heegers PSC devices [1, 2] are the most studied, and their operating mechanisms are best understood. However, the development and optimization of materials for organic solar cells, in general, is yet not rational, but rather empirical. Most of the research is oriented to elucidate the elementary mechanistic steps of electron transfer in such solar cells, followed by designing new solar cells. The QSPR analysis [12], in this respect, is an essential initial step for this purpose. This technique has the potential to isolate relatively more efﬁcient materials to start with, followed by the computation of electrochemical and photophysical parameters through quantum studies, to establish the best feasible materials for future solar cells. As other chapters of the present book discuss the quantum approaches, we have concentrated our discussion on the topic of application of QSAR for designing future solar cells, especially for DSSCs and PSCs, which are least explored and least efﬁcient ones considering %PCE as per National Renewable Energy Laboratory solar cell efﬁciency chart. The present chapter encourages the usage of QSPR models to explore multiple chemical classes in search of the best possible efﬁcient materials for solar cells with higher %PCE values than the ones currently on the market. For a better under- standing of the topic, we have concentrated our discussion on DSSCs and PSCs. The chapter will help to understand how QSPR models can be employed for designing and Application of QSPR Modeling in Designing  169 predicting the %PCE of photo-efﬁcient solar cells. Additionally, already developed successful models are introspected. The available databases for modeling purposes along with future avenues of integration of QSPR, machine learning (ML), and artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) for the modeling of solar systems are also explored. 2 QSPR Modeling and Its Importance in Solar Cell The performance of a solar cell can be determined by evaluating the signiﬁcant photovoltaic parameters, such as the overall power conversion efﬁciency (%PCE), the photocurrent density measured at short-circuit photocurrent density (JSC), the open-circuit voltage (VOC) , the ﬁll factor (FF), and the intensity of the incident light (Pin) [1315]. PC E = JSC  VOC  F F Pin (1) %PCE indicates the overall performance of the solar cell. However, the factors that affect the %PCE are quite complicated, and its measurement must be performed with great care. Therefore, a proper computational method for predicting the %PCE would be useful for experiments and the design of acceptor/donor molecules for different solar cell systems. Thus, the QSPR modeling can explore the critical relationship between molecular structures and the target properties (here, majorly %PCE, but JSC, VOC, absorption maxima (λmax) can also be modeled) through the quantum chemical molecular descriptors as well as structural features of the chemical systems of the solar cell. Besides, this technique can also capture the physical essence of molecular structures [15].  The QSPR model will enable us to identify the essential structural attributes and quantify the prime molecular prerequisites, which are majorly responsible for higher power conversion efﬁciency (%PCE) [16]. These speciﬁed properties and structural fragments will be utilized for the future design (and possibly followed up with synthesis) of better power conversion-efﬁcient lead molecular systems. Now, for example, one can model organic dye as the donor component for DSSCs or acceptor (FD/NFA)/donor (Polymer) sections for PSCs.  The QSPR models can help to screen large databases for speciﬁc components for a deﬁnite solar cell system. The virtual screening approach is quite popular in the drug discovery process, which can be tactfully employed in the solar cell designing and discovery process.  The in silico approaches such as QSPR will help to reduce the synthesis time and loss of money and human efforts in the unnecessary synthesis of too many materials. Rather a rational approach will offer the best possible lead materials for solar cells with a certain percentage of conﬁdence in better solar efﬁciency. 170 S. Kar et al.  Virtual screening of different material databases is also possible using a developed QSPR model for speciﬁc solar cell systems, which even dismisses the idea of material synthesis. Researchers can directly purchase those identiﬁed materials from the suppliers database and experimentally check the %PCE. Considering the above aspects, the QSPR analysis can be tremendously capable when used in the designing of power conversion-efﬁcient solar cells in upcoming days. 3 How QSPR Works for Solar Cell Modeling The ﬁrst and foremost requirement to develop an acceptable QSPR model is obtaining a series of experimental data in the form of %PCE (if we are modeling efﬁciency of the solar cell) for the solar cell, which will act as a dependent variable for the QSPR model. Similar to modeling the %PCE parameter, one can model other elec- trochemical and photophysical characteristics, where, instead of %PCE, additional parameters will represent the dependent variable. Thereafter, to model the dependent variable, one needs independent variables or descriptors in the form of quantum, structural, constitutional, and topological descriptors, etc, computed from the struc- ture of the solar cell components (acceptor, donor part of the system) itself. Once both data are ready, with the help of chemometric tools, the modeler can develop a linear and nonlinear QSPR model. The QSPR model needs to be passed through various validation protocols, applicability domain (AD) study followed by process, and model randomization [12, 15, 17, 18]. A schematic hypothesis of the QSPR modeling of the solar cell is depicted in Fig. 1. Once the QSPR model is ready, it can be used for future design, virtual screening of materials databases for the screening of power conversion-efﬁcient compounds followed by mechanistic interpretation to identify the best possible structural fragments and quantum properties for enhanced %PCE value for diverse solar components. 4 Successful QSPR Models in Solar Cell 4.1 Modeling Study on DSSC Venkatraman et al. [17] reported one of the ﬁrst successful QSPR models employing comparative molecular ﬁeld analysis (CoMFA) and vibrational frequency-based eigenvalue (EVA) descriptors to model structurephotovoltaic performance for a set of 40 coumarins and aniline derivatives that act as dye sensitizers for DSSCs. The authors modeled statistically robust models for important photovoltaic parameters such as %PCE, short-circuit current (JSC), the open-circuit voltage (VOC) , and the peak absorption wavelength λmax. For the modeling purpose, the EVA descriptors Application of QSPR Modeling in Designing  171 Fig. 1 Hypothesis of QSPR modeling for solar cells were derived from the vibrational frequencies of an optimized geometry structure. MolecularﬁelddescriptorswerecalculatedemployingCoMFAbyestimatinginterac- tion energies of a probe atom, with each dye structure placed inside a grid. Thereafter, the aligned structures were placed inside a 3D grid of 4Å followed by the computation of steric and electrostatic interaction energies using a positively charged sp3 carbon atom as the probe atom. Again, a series of geometrical and topological descrip- tors were calculated using the DRAGON software. After that, the authors employed these descriptors to model photovoltaic properties using partial least squares regres- sion (PLSR) as implemented in the R package pls (https://cran.r-project.org/web/pac kages/pls/pls.pdf). Based on the CoMFA isocontour maps analysis, extended thio- phene bridges and steric inﬂuence in the anchor are helpful for better photovoltaic properties. The identiﬁcation of vital structural features of coumarin and aniline derivatives is useful for the design of future organic dyes with improved solar cell performance. In another study, Venkatraman and Alsberg [19] established simple and robust QSPR models to predict the imperative photovoltaic properties such as JSC, VOC, and %PCE for a set of 73 phenothiazine dyes. The authors developed PLS and random forest (RF) models using six different classes of descriptors. They include molecular signature (set of strings where each string is a canonical representation of the topological environment of every atom in the compound), Topological maximum 172 S. Kar et al. cross-correlation (TMACC), DRAGON (2D and 3D descriptors), eigenvalue descrip- tors (EVA/EEVA) (high-dimensional vector derived from the pseudo-spectrum of normal vibrational modes of the molecules), and ParaSurf (semiempirical quantum mechanics theory to calculate local properties that are projected onto an isoden- sity surface). The authors claimed that linear multivariate methods were adequate to produce models with high predictive ability. Among the descriptors tested, the best models were generated using the EVA descriptors concerning predictive power and robustness. The authors tried to interpret their models and came out with the following ﬁndings: (a) dyes with a hexyloxy group exhibited efﬁciencies of 5% or greater; (b) the addition of the alkoxy moiety had been connected with increased light-harvesting efﬁciency, owing to extended π-conjugation; (c) the alkyl chain was found to be essential as the incorporation of the linear and branched form of alkyl groups into the dye template was reported to decrease intermolecular aggregation and suppress charge recombination at the interface between the TiO2 layer and elec- trolyte. The authors concluded that the interpretation of the models tended to agree with general knowledge about DSSCs. The same groupVenkatraman et al. [20] constructed the QSPR model using a set of 117 phenothiazine-based dye sensitizers with %PCE ranging between 0.4% and 8.18%. Each phenothiazine derivative was optimized using the semiempirical AM1 method using MOPAC and vibrational frequency-based eigenvalue (EVA) descrip- tors were calculated. The QSPR model was developed employing the partial least squares regression (PLSR) approach using the pls package available in the R soft- ware. After that, the evolutionary de novo design technique was used to design ﬁve novel dyes (PTZ-1-PTZ-5) with improved %PCE values ranging from 9.2 to 9.52%. Further analyzing PTZ-1 (9.34%), the authors interpreted that the secondary elec- tron donor unit, i.e., julolidine, not only extends the absorption region but may also be responsible for limited aggregation. Thus, for further introspection, the authors substituted the julolidine group in PTZ-1 with alkyl chains and designed another set of three dyes. Fascinatingly, for the bulky alkyl substituents, only a marginal decrease of up to 0.2% in the predicted %PCE is reported, while a much smaller ethyl substituent signiﬁcantly increases the %PCE to 11.18%. Kar et al. [21] developed multiple QSPR models using 21 arylamine organic dyes (AOD) as sensitizers with a TiO2 ﬁlm and liquid cobalt electrolyte for solar cells with experimental %PCE values. To model %PCE data, the authors employed quantum chemical molecular descriptors computed from density functional theory (DFT) and time-dependent DFT (TD-DFT) methods with B3LYP and CAM-B3LYP exchange correlation with basis set 6-31G (d, p). In addition, structural descriptors from DRAGON software were used. The best QSPR model was developed through a genetic algorithm based on multiple linear regression (GA-MLR) using the K- MedoidClusteringdivisiontechniquefordatasetsplit.Themechanisticinterpretation of the best model suggested that the increment of the count of sp3 carbon atoms, a higher number of alkyl substitutions, and the combination of a distance/detour ring index of order 11 fragment (in speciﬁc, 4H-cyclopenta[1,2-b:5,4-b]dithiophene fragment) enable rapid electron injection into the semiconductor. The developed QSPR model can work as an efﬁcient tool to screen a wide range of AOD to ﬁnd Application of QSPR Modeling in Designing  173 future probable lead dyes with high %PCE in a cost-effective, timely manner. The authors concluded that the QSPR model is principally signiﬁcant for characterizing and predicting the nature of the donor:π-bridge:acceptor (DπA) relationships critical for photoconversion. Cascaded QSPR models were proposed between the overall %PCE and quantum chemical molecular descriptors for 354 organic dye sensitizers [15]. The cascaded model is a two-level network where the output from the ﬁrst level (JSC, VOC, and FF) becomes the inputs of the second level, and the eventual endpoint is the overall %PCE of DSSCs. Thus, to develop the models, the authors employed DFT and TD-DFT methods using the GAUSSIAN09 software package using the B3LYP method with two types of basis sets, 631G* and STO-3G. After that, 31 descriptors combining 25 quantum chemical ones and 6 constitutional descriptors were chosen, covering molecular physicochemical properties both in the ground and excited states to model bothcases.Forthedevelopmentoftheregressionmodels,theauthorsusedthesupport vector machine (SVM). Interestingly, for the comparison purpose, two types of SVM regression models were developed: the cascaded (CasSVM) and noncascaded (NCSVM) models. For the efﬁciency of the models, they employed six different feature selection methods. They include MLR, mean impact value, GA, forward selection, backward elimination, and +n-m algorithm) to be used with the SVM. The best-cascaded model demonstrates goodness-of-ﬁt and acceptable predictive ability as per acceptable validation parameters such as R2 (0.75), Q2 (0.77), and Q2 cv (0.76). Along with that, the best models were checked for the applicability domain test. The study offers suitability of the cascaded model, which can effectively predict the %PCE for organic dye sensitizers with low cost and relatively high accuracy, providing a useful tool for the design of future DSSCs with high %PCE. To understand the primary electron transfer mechanism and photophysical prop- erties of 273 arylamine organic dyes (AODs) from 11 diverse chemical families explicit to iodine electrolytes, the QSPR model equation was built by Kar et al. [18]. The direct QSPR models enable identiﬁcation of the essential electronic and struc- tural attributes necessary for quantifying the molecular prerequisites of 11 classes of AOD, responsible for high %PCE of DSSCs. The identiﬁed properties from the corresponding QSPR models of the tetrahydroquinoline, N,N-dialkylaniline, and indoline were employed in the designing of lead dyes. Next, a series of electro- chemical and photophysical parameters was computed for designed dyes to check the required variables for the electron ﬂow of DSSCs. Quantum chemical properties of the designed dyes such as electrochemical parameters, absorption spectra, and contour plots of HOMO and LUMO of each lead dye were calculated. They helped to check the required electrochemical environment for a fast electron transfer rate in the composite DSSCs system to support their better %PCE. The combined compu- tational techniques yielded seven promising lead dyes, each for all three chemical classes considered. Signiﬁcant (130, 183, and 46%) increment in predicted %PCE was observed compared with the existing dye with the highest experimental %PCE value for tetrahydroquinoline, N,N-dialkylaniline, and indoline, respectively, main- taining required electrochemical parameters (Fig. 2). Later, tetrahydroquinoline- based lead dyes were further investigated to reveal the photophysical properties 174 S. Kar et al. Fig. 2 Schematic workﬂow of the designing study employing QSPR modeling and quantum study performed by Kar et al. [18] [The ﬁgure is printed with permission from Springer Nature] such as electron injection, charge transfer, and separation of the isolated dyes as well as the interface of the dye and TiO2 semiconductor [22]. The insertions of double- bonded oxygen to the aromatic carbon in tetrahydroquinoline-based designed dyes certainly improve the photovoltaic performance and energy conversion efﬁciency of sensitizers. Designed DAπA-based Indoline dyes were comprehensively inves- tigated by Roy et al. [23] using computational approaches to evaluate their prospect of application in future DSSCs. An array of optoelectronic properties of the isolated dye and dyes adsorbed on a TiO2 cluster that simulates the semiconductor were explored by DFT and TDDFT methods. The study showed that the presence of an internal acceptor such as pyrido[3,4-b]pyrazine would inﬂuence the open-circuit voltage (VOC)v value, compared to the benzothiadiazole moiety. Krishna et al. [24] developed multiple QSPR models employing %PCE data of DSSCs using around 1200 dyes covering seven chemical classes. To extract the best structural features required for higher %PCE, the authors developed partial least squares (PLS) based on QSPR models for the Triphenylamine, Indoline, Phenoth- iazine, Coumarin, Porphyrin, Diphenylamine, and Carbazole datasets. From the models obtained from the best subset selection, the authors selected ﬁve models in each dataset based on the Mean Absolute Error (MAE) values. The models were validated both internally and externally, followed by the consensus predic- tions employing the Intelligent Consensus Predictor tool. From the insights of the developed PLS models, the authors concluded that such features as a packed structure toward higher conductivity of electrons, number of thiophenes inducing the bathochromic shift and augmenting the absorption, auxiliary donor fragment of Application of QSPR Modeling in Designing  175 aromatic tertiary amines, enhancement of electron-donating abilities, presence of additional electron donors, number of non-aromatic conjugated C(sp2), which helps as conjugation extension units to broaden the absorption, and highly conjugated π- systems exert positive contributions to the %PCE. Meanwhile, features negatively contributing to %PCE are following: fragments related to the larger volume and surface area of dyes along with hydrophobicity resulting in poor adhesion, fragment RC=N causing dye hydrolysis, fragments lowering the tendency of localized ππ* transition, fragments enhancing polarity, a steric hindrance for π electronic mobility, etc. The developed models for seven chemical classes are useful for quick prediction of %PCE of new/untested dyes along with designing of new dyes, employing the deep mechanistic, structural insights [24]. The authors further designed ten coumarin dyes (CM1-CM10), selecting these molecules due to their least %PCE reported value compared to other existing studied chemical classes. The new dyes were designed employing model IM5, which is the best-developed model for coumarin dyes. The theoreticalpredictionshowed%PCErangesfrom8.93to10.62,whichisastraightfor- ward 20.6843.51% increment of %PCE value compared to the highest experimental %PCE of 7.4 in the studied dataset (Fig. 3). Fig. 3 Schematic overﬂow of the QSPR modeling study by Krishna et al. [24] (The ﬁgure is printed with permission from Elsevier) 176 S. Kar et al. 4.2 Modeling Study on PSCs Pourbasheer et al. [25] developed the QSPR model for 45 fullerenes derivatives (FDs) to predict the power-conversion efﬁciency as PSC acceptors. The authors pre-optimized all FDs using the molecular mechanics force ﬁeld (MM +) approach, followed by ﬁnal optimization by the semiempirical (AM1) method with the adjusted root mean square gradient of 0.01 kcal mol1 in MOPAC software. The output ﬁles were employed to compute a series of 386 descriptors (constitutional, topological, geometrical, thermodynamic, quantum chemical, and charge-related descriptors) by CODESSA program. The genetic algorithm (GA) method was used for the variable selection, followed by multiple linear regression (MLR) analysis to develop the ﬁnal model. To check the predictive ability of the developed model, the authors performed the cross-validation analysis and the Y-randomization test. The GAMLR model was constructed based on six molecular descriptors, which led to the following mecha- nistic interpretations: (a) the relative negative charge and (b) minimum nuclear repul- sion energy between CH would increase the %PCE properties while (c) expanding the hydrophobicity by increasing the magnitude, (d) increasing the total hybridiza- tion component of the molecular dipole, (e) minimal (0.1) bond order of a C atom, and f) ESP-minimum net atomic charge for H atom would decrease the %PCE value of FDs. The developed model will help predict new FDs for the future as an acceptor component for PSCs. Kar et al. [16] developed one of the ﬁrst QSPR models, using a combination of C60 and C70 FDs [52 C60 and 7 C70] as solar cell acceptors to predict the %PCE. The authors employed an MLR approach based on a genetic algorithm (GA) as a variable selection tool to develop the best QSPR model. Later, the developed model was introduced to screen a series of 169 FDs, collected from 18 different literature sources that had never been used or checked in the PSC system. Along with predicting and quantifying the structural features responsible for higher %PCE values of FDs as polymer-based solar cell acceptor (Fig. 4), the developed model offers helpful insights regarding the use of virtual screening approaches to the identiﬁcation of lead FDs. Fragment A (Fig. 4) has positive effects on the %PCE value; it represents a four-atomic fragment labeled by partial charges induced by -ortho directing groups in the substituted benzene rings (Fig. 1). While fragment B has a negative impact on the %PCE related to the van der Waals attraction between three or more ortho substituents in benzene ring decrease, the %PCE value represents a ﬁve-atomic frag- ment [X-C(benz)-C(benz)-C(benz)-X]. Fragments C deﬁne two types of fullerene substituent linkages, including fragment type one (ﬁrst one) that corresponds to the presence of aromatic rings (X = phenyl, pyrrole, thiophene) attached via a linker to the fullerene, and fragment type two (the second one) that corresponds to the pres- ence of only a phenyl ring fused to fullerene via a linker. Fragment D deﬁnes partial charges and negatively affects the modeled equation, where A is an aromatic ring, R1 an alkane substituent, and the cross line shows the bond attaching the fullerene. Fragment E has a negative effect: it replicates substituents attached near a pentagon of Application of QSPR Modeling in Designing  177 Fig. 4 Identiﬁed structural features of FDs as an efﬁcient acceptor molecule for PSCs the fullerene core, which is chemically and electrochemically more stable than two- point substituted FDs. A large number of attachments in the fullerene core decreases the unsaturation and aromaticity properties, reducing the acceptor property of FDs. The fragments F are connected to partial charges with a negative impact on the %PCE values. They represent the transmission of charge through a chain of satu- rated carbons induced by a C=O group. However, when the C=O is attached to an aromatic ring, it can induce a mesomeric effect, which is stronger than an inductive effect. Therefore, the C=O group in the saturated carbon chain produces an inductive effect (the reason for lower %PCE). When it is connected to an aromatic ring, the mesomeric effect leads to higher %PCE. The presence of saturated carbon chains such as [C(sp3)- C(sp3)- C(sp3)- C(sp3)-H]) and the solvent-accessible surface area of polar atoms, which is essential when calculating free energy changes due to trans- ferring the molecule from a polar to a non-polar solvent during the formation of PSCs with BHJ layers, has a negative impact on %PCE. Virtual screening of large FDs has enabled the authors to identify 12 lead FDs with high %PCE values, then the studied FDs. An FD (ID: 41) showed the most promising %PCE value of 12.11, which offered a 200% increase in %PCE compared to the existing FDs at that time. The authors also established SiRMS-based descriptors, whichcanbeusedefﬁcientlyforQSPRmodelingofFDs.ThedevelopedQSPRmodel is incredibly valuable for predicting and characterizing the nature of donoracceptor relationships critical for photoconversion. The partial least squares-based (PLS-based) QSPR modeling followed by designing and optoelectronic properties were checked for ten future power-efﬁcient FDs as acceptors for PSCs by Roy et al. [26]. For the QSPR modeling purpose, exper- imental %PCE measured according to bulk-heterojunction (BHJ) devices, where FD acts as the electron acceptor and Poly(3-hexylthiophene) (P3HT) as donor polymer 178 S. Kar et al. were considered. The modeling dataset comprises 52 C60 and 7 C70 FDs. The PLS- based QSPR model helped to interpret the mathematical equation, which assists in understanding the following structural analysis for designing and mechanistic inter- pretation purposes: The -ortho directing groups in the benzene and aromatic rings such as phenyl, pyrrole, thiophene, attached to the fullerene are signiﬁcant features for better %PCE of PSCs. For higher %PCE, the saturated carbon chains or higher ortho substituents in benzene rings and a higher number of attachments in the parent fullerene core along with structural fragments with a lower solvent accessible surface area of polar atoms need to be avoided. Introspecting the structural features, the authors designed ten novel FDs consisting of C60 and C70 derivatives, and the predicted %PCE of FDs ranged from 7.96 to 23.01. The obtained encouraging results led the authors to perform a further theoretical analysis of the energetics and UVVis spectra of isolated FDs, employing DFT and TD-DFT calculations using PBE/6- 31G(d,p) and CAM-B3LYP/6-311G(d,p) level calculations, respectively. Frontier orbitalenergiesandUVVisabsorptionspectraoftheisolatedpoly(3-hexylthiophene (P3HT) oligomer, Phenyl-C61-butyric acid methyl ester (PCBM), and FDs were analyzed to estimate the optoelectronic properties of identiﬁed top four FDs (FD1, FD2, FD4, and FD10) as an acceptor in future PSCs. FD4 is recognized as the best C60-derivatives for PSCs as it shows the lowest exciton binding energy, strong absorp- tion in the UV region, and up-shifted LUMO energy level that assist in increasing V OC (Fig. 5). While in the case of C70-derivatives, FD7 is a likely candidate for future PSCs due to its strong absorption in the UVVis region and lower exciton binding energy with higher V OC. Combining the analyses of QSPR prediction and optoelectronic properties, the FD4 is proposed as the lead donor system of the future PSC by the authors. Fig. 5 Top four potential lead acceptor FDs for PSC Application of QSPR Modeling in Designing  179 4.3 QSPR Modeling of Absorption Maxima Another important property of a dye, the absorption maxima (λmax) of organic dyes for DSSCs can also be modeled using QSPR analysis and was ﬁrst performed by Xu et al. [27]. The authors employed linear regression analysis to model 70 structurally diverse dyes as sensitizers for DSSCs. All the dyes were pre-optimized using MM+ force ﬁeld applying PolakRibiere algorithm in the HYPERCHEM. It was followed by ﬁnal geometries of the minimum energy conformation that were obtained by the semiempirical AM1 method at a restricted HartreeFock level with no conﬁg- uration interaction, applying a gradient norm limit of 0.02 kcalÅ1 mol1 as a stopping criterion. After that, the DRAGON software was employed to calculate 763 3D descriptors from the optimized molecular geometries. Once the pool of descriptors was prepared, the author divided the dataset, using Kennard and Stones algorithm and developed the model with a training set, employing stepwise multi- linear regression analysis (MLRA). The ten-descriptor model reported a squared correlation coefﬁcient (R2) of 0.95. The consistency of the developed model was additionally checked using diverse validation techniques such as the leave-one-out cross-validation procedure, validation through the external test set, and randomiza- tion tests. Based on the signiﬁcance, the authors illustrated the modeled descrip- tors in the following order: RDF020v  R3v  R8m+ Hy  ALOGP2  G1u  Mor30m  Mor21m  Mor05u  P1u, where, RDF020v is the Radial Distribu- tion Function2.0/weighted atomic van der Waals volumes; Mor21m and Mor30m are the 3D-MoRSE-signal 21/weighted and 30/weighted by atomic masses, respec- tively, Mor05u is the 3D-MoRSE-signal 05/unweighted, G1u is the ﬁrst component symmetry directional WHIM index/unweighted, P1u is the ﬁrst component shape directional WHIM index/unweighted, R3v is the R autocorrelation of lag 3/weighted by atomic van der Waals volumes, R8m+ is the R maximal autocorrelation of lag 8/weighted by atomic masses, ALOGP2 is the squared GhoseCrippen octanol water partition coefﬁcient (log P2), and Hy is the hydrophilic factor. The derived descriptors will be helpful to estimate the λmax of future dyes before they are even synthesized. The same set of dyes was further explored by Xu et al. [28] employing artiﬁcial neural networks (ANN). The authors used similar optimization protocols applied under the previous study [A], followed by a total of 1164 descriptors that were calcu- lated from the optimized molecular geometries, employing DRAGON software. The descriptors range from 0D to 3D descriptors (constitutional, functional groups and atom-centered fragments, topological, BCUT (Burden Chemical Abstract Service University of Texas), autocorrelations, walk and path counts, information indices, connectivity indices, eigenvalue-based indices, topological charge indices, Randic molecular proﬁles from the geometry matrix, geometrical, GETAWAY descriptors and weighted holistic invariant molecular (WHIM)). Then, the authors modeled λmax, using seven descriptors selected on the training set by genetic algorithm (GA) followed by a non-linear model using ANN with the squared correlation coefﬁ- cient R2 = 0.991. The modeled descriptors were HOMA, Mor09u, RDF095v, G1p, 180 S. Kar et al. Mor26v, R6mþ, and R2m, indicating that the λmax values of the dye sensitizers rely signiﬁcantly on the size, mass, polarizability, and aromatic plane of the dyes. Addi- tionally, the molecular conformational changes have an immense effect on the λmax values as per the ANN model. 5 Designing of Solar Cells, Employing QSPR and Machine Learning Models Rational designing of solar cells can help manufacture low-cost and efﬁcient cells under scalable techniques, allowing to reach competitive performance-to-price ratios [29]. How QSPR, machine learning (ML) tools, and artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) can be employed for designing, followed by the quantum chemical study, is explained in the schematic workﬂow in Fig. 6. Interestingly, all the theoretical predictions of %PCE need to be conﬁrmed through multiple quantum chemical studies and computation of optoelectronic parameters before ﬁnal conﬁrmation by experiment. Thus, many times although QSPR and ML approaches suggest a system can be efﬁcient for future solar cells, it can fail to achieve the required optoelectronic parameters. In these speciﬁc cases, the systems need to be redesigned based on the interpretation to maintain required optoelectronic parameters for an efﬁcient solar cell, as explained in Fig. 6. This process may continue in a loop until all parameters and the %PCE value optimize. This redesigning approach is a more rational and strategical one than Fig. 6 Designing and redesigning scheme of efﬁcient solar cells, employing QSPR and ML models Application of QSPR Modeling in Designing  181 a simple designing idea. For modeling and designing purposes, the following data, tools, and software are required: (a) Experimental %PCE along with Voc and Jsc values for at least 25+ data points (more data points along with structurally diverse one lead to statistically better model) for the QSPR modeling purpose. The data points can be dye as the acceptor for DSSCs or acceptor (FD/NFA)/donor (Polymer) for PSCs. (b) Structural and physicochemical properties can be calculated employing PaDEL software [30], Dragon [31], ChemAxon [32], etc., while quantum descrip- tors can be computed utilizing Gaussian (DFT and TD-DFT analysis using differentlevelsofcalculations)[33]andMOPAC(PM6andPM7semiempirical calculations) [34] software outputs. (c) Chemometric approaches such as multiple linear regression (MLR), partial least squares (PLS), stepwise regressions, linear discriminant analysis, random forest, supervised, unsupervised machine learning approaches such as a neural network, deep learning, decision tree, etc. There are multiple open-access pieces of software available to perform these mentioned analyses, for example, DTC Lab Software Tools [35], QSARINS [36], WEKA workbench [37], etc. (d) Once the statistically accepted model is ready, interpret the mathematical QSPR equation to understand the features responsible for the augmentation of %PCE value along with identity features accountable for lower %PCE. Use this information in designing new systems for solar cells. (e) Optoelectronic parameters such as the driving force of electro injection (G Inject), charge recombination, shift of conduction band (CB) edge, intramolecular charge transfer (ICT), exciton binding energy, the spontaneity of dye regeneration (G Reg), exciton binding synergy (Eb), charge transfer length (dCT ), reorganization energy (λTotal), the shift of CB of TiO2 (EC B), projected density of states (PDOS), and chemical reactivity parameters as well as excited-state lifetime and photostability of the complex need to be computed to check the ideal characteristics of a solar system [38]. (f) If there is a problem with the value of any optoelectronic parameter, the system needs to be redesigned, followed by %PCE prediction and recalculation of the optoelectronic properties. 6 Databases of Solar Cells for Modeling The databases are one of the starting points for computational and in silico modeling studies (QSPR, machine learning, high-throughput screening). A series of databases related to drug design and discovery (Super Natural II [39], DrugBank [40]), chemi- cals toxicity and ecotoxicity (ACToR [41], ITER [42], RiskIE [42]), and agrochem- icals (NPIRS [43], PAN [44]) exists for modeling and virtual screening purposes. Similarly, solar cell databases covering single or multiple types are the best source to start the modeling process. But, unfortunately, most of the existing databases for solar cells cover the solar cell panel information, cell types, dimensions, and efﬁciency 182 S. Kar et al. without offering too much detailed information for modeling personnel. Recently, a handful of databases have been available for solar cell research, which is a matter of great concern. The public databases are discussed below: 6.1 The Dye-Sensitized Solar Cell Database (DSSCDB) is one of the ﬁnest addi- tions in solar energy research by Venkatraman et al. [45], which consists of over 4000 experimental observations spanning multiple dye classes for DSSCs and can be accessed at https://www.dyedb.com/. The database consists of molecular struc- tures of the dyes along with experimental speciﬁcs, measured efﬁciencies, and spec- tral properties. Studied classes are carbazole, indoline, coumarin, triphenylamine, porphyrin, phenothiazine, squaraine, ruthenium, and miscellaneous (includes dyes based on donors such as perylene, azobenzene, anthracene, fulvalene, imidazole, and julolidine). 6.2 A molecular library of approximately 2.6 million conjugated molecules was prepared through a combinatorial molecule generation scheme employing a set of 30 molecular building blocks by Olivares-Amaya et al. [46]. The implemented frag- ments are the most widespread molecular motifs regularly utilized in the experi- mental design of Organic Photovoltaic Materials (OPVs). The authors generated the molecules using a virtual reaction-based approach by either linking or fusing the fragments. Additionally, they extended the size of the co-monomers by appropri- ately adding molecular handles so that they can be further linked or fused. For the virtual screening approach, this library can be helpful to search donor materials for OPVs. Without any doubt, the creation of more databases is required to cover emerging solar cells such as FD/NFD PSCs, Perovskite solar cells, organic and inorganic cells to enhance their %PCE in upcoming days. Since harvesting removable energy is a priority of many research programs, one expects the launching of more databases soon. 7 Future Avenues 7.1 Webserver for %PCE Prediction of Solar Cell Webservers or web platforms are an integrated collection of multiple models devel- oped with QSPR, ML, and artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) approaches, using diverse computer languages and platforms. Webservers are quite popular nowadays due to their easy accessibility and promptness of availability of required output. The idea of these webservers in drug discovery, especially in the fast prediction of Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion, and Toxicity (ADMET) proﬁling, as well as ecotoxicity of any query drug molecule, is successfully employed by academicians and industries. The prominent ones are ADMETlab [47], admetSAR 2.0 [48], and SwissADME [49]. In this background, webservers will be a unique idea for future prediction of the %PCE of diverse solar cells. We believe that such a webserver Application of QSPR Modeling in Designing  183 Fig. 7 Probable schematic workﬂow of webserver design for QSPR modeling could operate using the scheme and concepts provided below. Based on the users requirement, the user can select the type of solar cell, followed by the selection of speciﬁc in silico model to predict the %PCE of designed dye as the acceptor for DSSCs or acceptor (FD/NFA)/donor (Polymer) for PSCs. As an input, the user needs to provide the compounds 2D structure or SMILES, and the output will be %PCE value and a few basic quantum chemical parameters. The probable schematic ﬂow of the webserver design can be illustrated as per Fig. 7. 7.2 Global Models The most common practice is developing a chemical class-speciﬁc QSPR model for the %PCE. However, with the advancement of high-performance computing and ML techniques, its insightful to create a global model from multiple chemical classes that can predict and explain the signiﬁcant structural features in the designing a photo-efﬁcient sensitizer. The global models have already proven their competence to model, and future designing of dataset comprises diverse chemical classes [50]. Most signiﬁcantly, the global model will help decide the best possible chemical class among the studied ones. Another critical aspect of the global model is that it will act as an efﬁcient tool for the virtual screening of large databases to ﬁnd and 184 S. Kar et al. predict probable power conversion-efﬁcient FDs/NFDs and organic dyes for PSCs and DSSCs, respectively, within time- and cost-effective way. So, the principle of the task is a general unifying model that can be applied across multiple different dye classes. 8 Conclusion TheuseofmathematicalmodelssuchasQSPRandMLapproaches,althoughefﬁcient in medicine and pharmacy, in the ﬁeld of the solar cell is new and requires further validation through experimental conﬁrmation in upcoming years. With promising lead compounds reported for DSSCs and PSCs over the last 5 years, the models have beengainingpopularityamongthesolarcellresearchers.AcombinationofQSPRand quantum-mechanical studies can seriously save time and money by eliminating the unnecessary synthesis of different components for solar cell systems and by offering a rational design and checking of %PCE theoretically, even before the synthesis of speciﬁc elements. Although in most cases, researchers are limited in their usage of QSPR models to %PCE prediction, they can be efﬁciently used for predicting any photophysical parameters for solar cells if a series of experimental data exists. Acknowledgements Authors are thankful to the Department of Energy (grant number: DE- SC0018322) and the NSF EPSCoR (grant number: OIA-1757220) for ﬁnancial support. Conﬂicts of Interest The authors declare no conﬂict of interest. References 1. REN21 (2019) Global Status Report, Paris:REN21 Secretariat. https://www.ren21.net/reports/ global-status-report/. Accessed 20 Aug 2020 2. Kammen DM (2006) The rise of renewable energy. Sci Am 295:8493 3. Chiba Y, Islam A, Watanabe Y, Komiya R, Koide N, Han L (2006) Dye-sensitized solar cells with conversion efﬁciency of 11.1%. Jpn J Appl Phys 45:L638L640 4. Regan BO, Grätzel M (1991) A low-cost, high-efﬁciency solar cell based on dye-sensitized colloidal TiO2 ﬁlms. Nature 353:737740 5. Choi I, Ju M, Kang S, Kang M, You B, Hong J, Kim HK (2013) Structural effect of carbazole- based coadsorbents on the photovoltaic performance of organic dye-sensitized solar cells. J Mater Chem A 32:91149121 6. Zhang L, Yang X, Wang W, Gurzadyan GG, Li J, Li X, An J, Yu Z, Wang H, Cai B, Hagfeldt A, Sun L (2019) 13.6% Efﬁcient organic dye-sensitized solar cells by minimizing energy losses of the excited state. ACS Energy Lett 4:943951 7. Mathew S, Yella A, Gao P, Humphry-Baker R, Curchod BFE, Ashari-Astani N, Tavernelli I, Rothlisberger U, Nazeeruddin MdK, Grätzel M (2014) Dye-sensitized solar cells with 13% efﬁciency achieved through the molecular engineering of porphyrin sensitizers. Nat Chem 6:242247 8. Lee Y-L, Lo Y-S (2009) Highly Efﬁcient Quantum-Dot-Sensitized Solar Cell Based on Co- Sensitization of CdS/CdSe. Adv Funct Mater 19:604609 Application of QSPR Modeling in Designing  185 9. Cheng Y-J, Yang S-H, Hsu C-S (2009) Synthesis of Conjugated Polymers for Organic Solar Cell Applications. Chem Rev 109:58685923 10. Dennler G, Scharber MC, Brabec CJ (2009) Polymer-Fullerene Bulk-Heterojunction Solar Cells. Adv Mater 21:13231338 11. Hagfeldt H, Boschloo G, Sun L, Kloo L, Pettersson H (2010) Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells. Chem Rev 110:65956663 12. Roy K, Kar S, Das RN (2015) Understanding the basics of QSAR for applications in pharmaceutical sciences and risk assessment. Academic Press, Amsterdam 13. Pastore M, Fantacci S, De Angelis F (2013) Modeling excited states and alignment of energy levels in dye-sensitized solar cells: successes, failures, and challenges. J Phys Chem C117:36853700 14. Zhang S, Yang X, Numata Y, Han L (2013) Highly efﬁcient dye-sensitized solar cells: progress and future challenges. Energy Environ Sci 6:14431464 15. Li H, Zhong Z, Li L, Gao R, Cui J, Gao T, Hu LH, Lu Y, Su Z-H, Hui L (2015) A cascaded QSAR model for efﬁcient prediction of overall power conversion efﬁciency of all-organic dye-sensitized solar cells. J Comput Chem 36:10361046 16. Kar S, Sizochenko N, Ahmed L, Batista VS, Leszczynski J (2016) Quantitative structure- property relationship model leading to virtual screening of fullerene derivatives: exploring structural attributes critical for photoconversion efﬁciency of polymer solar cell acceptors. Nano Energy 26:677691 17. Venkatraman V, Astrand P-O, Alsberg BK (2014) Quantitative Structure-Property Relationship Modeling of Gratzel Solar Cell Dyes. J Comput Chem 35:214226 18. Kar S, Roy JK, Leszczynski J (2017) In silico designing of power conversion efﬁcient organic lead dyes for solar cells using todays innovative approaches to assure renewable energy for future. npj Comput Mater 3:22 19. Venkatraman V, Alsberg BK (2015) A quantitative structure-property relationship study of the photovoltaic performance of phenothiazine dyes. Dyes Pigm 114:6977 20. Venkatraman V, Foscato M, Jensen VR, Alsberg BK (2015) Evolutionary de novo design of phenothiazine derivatives for dye-sensitized solar cells. J Mater Chem A 3:98519860 21. Kar S, Roy JK, Leszczynska D, Leszczynski J (2017) Power conversion efﬁciency of arylamine organic dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) explicit to cobalt electrolyte: understanding the structural attributes using a direct QSPR approach. Computation 5:2 22. Roy JK, Kar S, Leszczynski J (2018) Insight into the optoelectronic properties of designed solar cells efﬁcient tetrahydroquinoline dye-sensitizers on TiO2(101) surface: ﬁrst principles approach. Sci Rep 8:10997 23. Roy JK, Kar S, Leszczynski J (2019) Electronic Structure and Optical Properties of Designed Photo-Efﬁcient Indoline-Based Dye-Sensitizers with D-AπA Framework. J Phys Chem C 123:33093320 24. Krishna JG, Ojha PK, Kar S, Roy K, Leszczynski J (2020) Chemometric modeling of power conversion efﬁciency of organic dyes in dye sensitized solar cells for the future renewable energy. Nano Energy 70: 25. Pourbasheer E, Banaei A, Aalizadeh R, Ganjali MR, Norouzi P, Shadmanesh J, Methenitis C (2015) Prediction of %PCE of fullerene (C60) derivatives as polymer solar cell acceptors by genetic algorithmmultiple linear regression. J Ind Eng Chem 21:10581067 26. Roy JK, Kar S, Leszczynski J (2019) Optoelectronic properties of C60 and C70 fullerene derivatives: designing and evaluating novel candidates for efﬁcient P3HT polymer solar cells. Materials 12:2282 27. Xu J, Zhang H, Wang L, Liang G, Wang L, Shen X, Xu W (2010) QSPR study of absorption maxima of organic dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells based on 3D descriptors. Spectrochimica Acta Part A 76:239247 28. Xu J, Zhang H, Wang L, Liang G, Wang L, Shen X (2011) Artiﬁcial neural network-based QSPR study on absorption maxima of organic dyes for dye-sensitised solar cells. Mol Simulat 37:110 186 S. Kar et al. 29. Cooper CB, Beard EJ, Vázquez-Mayagoitia Á, Stan L, Stenning GBG, Nye DW, Vigil JA, Tomar T, Jia J, Bodedla GB, Chen S, Gallego L, Franco S, Carella A, Thomas KRJ, Xue S, Zhu X, Cole JM (2019) Design-to-device approach affords panchromatic co-sensitized solar cells. Adv Energy Mater 9:1970014 30. Yap CW (2011) PaDEL-Descriptor: an open source software to calculate molecular descriptors and ﬁngerprints. J Comput Chem 32:14661474 31. DRAGON software. http://www.talete.mi.it/products/dragon_description.htm 32. ChemAxon software. https://www.chemaxon.com 33. Frisch MJ, Trucks GW, Schlegel HB, Scuseria GE, Robb MA, Cheeseman JR, Scalmani G, Barone V, Mennucci B, Petersson GA et al (2009) Gaussian 09, revision D.01. Wallingford CT 121:150166 34. Stewart JJ (1990) MOPAC: a semiempirical molecular orbital program. J Comput-Aid Mol Des 4:1103 35. DTC lab Software Tools. http://teqip.jdvu.ac.in/QSAR_Tools/DTCLab/. Accessed 20 Aug 2020 36. Gramatica P, Chirico N, Papa E, Kovarich S, Cassani S (2013) QSARINS: a new software for the development, analysis, and validation of QSAR MLR models. J Comput Chem 34:21212132 37. Frank E, Hall MA, Witten IH (2016) The WEKA Workbench. Online appendix for Data Mining: Practical Machine Learning Tools and Techniques, 4th edn. Morgan Kaufmann 38. Roy JK, Kar S, Leszczynski J (2020) Revealing the Photophysical Mechanism of N, N- dialkyl/phenyl-aniline based Sensitizers with D-DA Framework: Theoretical Insights. ACS Sustain Chem Eng (In press). https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.0c04061 39. Banerjee P, Erehman J, Gohlke B-O, Wilhelm T, Preissner R, Dunkel M (2015) Super natural IIa database of natural products. Nucleic Acids Res 43:D935D939 40. Wishart DS, Feunang YD, Guo AC, Lo EJ, Marcu A, Grant JR, Sajed T, Johnson D, Li C, Sayeeda Z, Assempour N, Iynkkaran I, Liu Y, Maciejewski A, Gale N, Wilson A, Chin L, Cummings R, Le D, Pon A, Knox C, Wilson M (2018) DrugBank 5.0: a major update to the DrugBank database for 2018. Nucleic Acids Res 46:D1074D1082 41. Judson R, Richard A, Dix D, Houck K, Elloumi F, Martin M, Cathey T, Transue TR, Spencer R, Wolf M (2008) ACToR-aggregated computational toxicology resource. Toxicol Appl Pharm 233:713 42. Wullenweber A, Kroner O, Kohrman M, Maier A, Dourson M, Rak A, Wexler P, Tomljanovic C (2008) Resources for global risk assessment: The International Toxicity Estimates for Risk (ITER) and Risk Information Exchange (RiskIE) databases. Toxicol Appl Pharm 233:4553 43. NPIRS database: http://npirspublic.ceris.purdue.edu/ppis/. Accessed 20 Aug 2020 44. PAN database: http://www.pesticideinfo.org/. Accessed 20 Aug 2020 45. Venkatraman V, Raju R, Oikonomopoulos SP, Alsberg BK (2018) The dye-sensitized solar cell database. J Cheminformatics 10:18 46. Olivares-Amaya R, Amador-Bedolla C, Hachmann J, Atahan-Evrenk S, Sánchez-Carrera RS, Vogt L, Aspuru-Guzik A (2011) Accelerated computational discovery of high-performance materials for organic photovoltaics by means of cheminformatics. Energy Environ Sci 4:4849 4861 47. Dong J, Wang NN, Yao ZJ, Zhang L, Cheng Y, Ouyang D, Lu AP, Cao DS (2018) ADMETlab: a platform for systematic ADMET evaluation based on a comprehensively collected ADMET database. J Cheminformatics 10:29 48. Yang HB, Lou C, Sun L, Li J, Cai Y, Wang Z, Li W, Liu G, Tang Y (2019) admetSAR 2.0: web-service for prediction and optimization of chemical ADMET properties. Bioinformatics 35:10671069 49. Daina A, Michielin O, Zoete V (2017) SwissADME: a free web tool to evaluate pharma- cokinetics, drug-likeness and medicinal chemistry friendliness of small molecules. Sci Rep 7:42717 50. Sosnowska A, Grzonkowska M, Puzyn T (2017) Global versus local QSAR models for predicting ionic liquids toxicity against IPC-81 leukemia rat cell line: The predictive ability. J Mol Liq 231:333340 Computational Screening of Organic Dye-Sensitizers for Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells: DFT/TDDFT Approach Juganta K. Roy, Supratik Kar, and Jerzy Leszczynski Abstract Dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) represent a promising third- generation photovoltaic technology due to their ease in fabrication, low cost, ability to operate in diffused light, ﬂexibility, and being lightweight. Organic dye-sensitizers are vital components of the DSSCs. Comprehensive theoretical study of the dyes spectroscopic properties, including excitation energies ground- and excited-state oxidation potential, allows to design and screen organic dye-sensitizers for an efﬁ- cient DSSC. Density functional theory (DFT) and time-dependent DFT (TDDFT) approaches have been efﬁciently used to estimate different optoelectronic properties of sensitizers. This chapter outlined the use of the DFT and TDDFT framework to design organic dye-sensitizers for DSSCs to predict different photophysical proper- ties. Prediction of essential factors such as short-circuit current density (JSC), open- circuit voltage (VOC), along with charge transfer phenomena, will help experimental groups to fabricate DSSCs with higher photoconversion efﬁciency (PCE). Besides, this chapter includes a basic understanding of the mechanism of DSSCs, based on the energetics of the various constituents of the heterogeneous device. 1 Introduction Energy is a vital issue, considering the healthy life of our society in the present and future. It is also essential to make the energy cleaner and greener so that the future lives are not in chaos. The global energy consumption reached about 13 TW in the year 2000. Based on the present global population growth and energy consumption increase, the required energy amount will reach 28 TW by the year 2050 [1, 2]. The depletion of fossil fuels is not only endangering our reserve but is also chal- lenging our environment. Renewable energy is the only solution that can intervene in the vicious cycle of energy and provide a healthy environment for the earth [3]. J. K. Roy  S. Kar  J. Leszczynski (B) Interdisciplinary Center for Nanotoxicity, Department of Chemistry, Physics and Atmospheric Sciences, Jackson State University, Jackson, MS 39217, USA e-mail: jerzy@icnanotox.org  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021 J. K. Roy et al. (eds.), Development of Solar Cells, Challenges and Advances in Computational Chemistry and Physics 32, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-69445-6_8 187 188 J. K. Roy et al. Photovoltaics (PVs) are devices that can make life easy by converting abundant solar energy into green electricity. Numerous types of PVs have been developed by the scientiﬁc community, such as crystalline silicon solar cells, second-generation solar cells, including thin-ﬁlm solar cells, and amorphous silicon-, copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS) and GaAs-, and CdTe-based devices. The third-generation PVs such as dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) aim at low-cost high-efﬁciency using inexpensive, abundant, and eco-friendly materials [4, 5]. Organic dyes represent a unique class of cell components. Conventionally, organic dyes are consist of DπA-based architecture, where D and A stand for donor and acceptor features, and π is the conjugated linker between D and A. The DπA architecture of dye-sensitizers represents well-established high-performance organic sensitizers as the ease of synthesis and facilitates the intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) upon excitation [6, 7]. By tunning the structural attributes of this framework optoelectronic properties could be improved. To red-shift the ICT band of DπA, the following approaches could be used: (i) enhance the electron-donating capability of donor or π-spacer, (ii) improve acceptors ability for electron withdrawing, and (iii) increasing the length of π-bridge [8, 9]. Over the years, the standard DπA frameworks have been enhanced with further advancement. Zhang et al. [10] proposed a DAπA structure that combined an auxiliary acceptor functioning as an electron trap into customary DπA organic dyes for improving the ICT and diminishing the optical bandgap. These changes resulted in red-shifting the ICT absorption band. Also, it facilitates electron transport from the D unit to the anchor group [11]. Signiﬁcant molecular modiﬁcations such as DAπA [8, 12] and DDπA [1315] architectures have been proposed. New sensitizers based on such concepts have been designed and synthesized, resulting in higher photoconversion efﬁciency (PCE) of DSSCs. Currently, power conversion efﬁciencies (PCE) of organic dye-based DSSCs reached as high as 14.3% [16]. It is important to note that this value exceeded the highest PCEs of the lead ruthenium- based sensitizers at 11.9% [17]. DSSCs, as metal-free organic dyes, have signiﬁcant advantages and are widely used in both the academic and industrial arena due to their environmental beneﬁts and cost-effective measures. However, the synthesis of organic dyes is expensive and time-consuming, and the handling of by-product is a signiﬁcant concern. At this standpoint, in-silico approaches can help to reduce the time and cost. The computationally guided design is an economical option to accelerate the design of photo-efﬁcient DSSCs, which satisﬁes the required energetic proﬁles (Sect. 2, Fig. 1). One of the most efﬁcient way to design potential sensitizer is to start with the results of the QSPR approach described in the previous chapter. This approach allows to evaluate experimental data on the selected class of the dyes and then use the dyes characteristics that have the most signiﬁcant impact on the desired property to design new, more efﬁcient dyes. Such designed dyes should be evaluated further to assure that they possess the desired characteristics. Computa- tional approaches that follow the QSPR models allow predicting the designed dyes optoelectronic properties, including the efﬁcient charge transfer, charge separation, and charge recombination. Evaluation of the predicted highest occupied molecular Computational Screening of Organic Dye-Sensitizers  189 Fig. 1 Schematic diagram representing the basic principle of DSSCs with a description of seven steps involved in converting photon to electricity in DSSCs orbital (HOMO) and lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) energy of the isolated dyes, compared to the conduction band (CB) edge of TiO2 and redox poten- tial of the electrolyte can bypass the expensive synthesis of potentially inefﬁcient dye-sensitizers. Large-scale quantum mechanical calculations, for the most efﬁcient metal-based dyes, provide accurate predictions not only for the spectroscopic proper- ties of various Ru(II) complexes but also for their ground- and excited-state oxidation potentials[18].Thepredictionofthechargetransferphenomenaatthedonor/acceptor interface of push-full organic dye-sensitizers is a critical area where theory can guide chemical synthesis. In this chapter, we will outline the evaluation of arylamine-based organic dyes (AOD), using the state-of-the-art DFT and TDDFT approaches. Speciﬁcally, our discussion will focus on how to design and screen the DSSCs before costly synthesis. We will emphasize two critical factors (JSC and V OC) of DSSCs, which should be balanced to accomplish higher PCE outputs. 2 Working Principle of DSSCs Basic principles of DSSCs were ﬁrst described by Gratzel and ORegan in their pioneer work in 1991 [5]. Since then, academic and industrial researchers have given the enormous effort to improve the several issues of DSSCs to get the maximum 190 J. K. Roy et al. photon-to-energy conversion efﬁciency [7, 1922]. A schematic illustration of the essential components and relative energy levels of a DSSC is described in Fig. 2. The heart of the device is the organic dye or dye-sensitizer placed between the mesoporous layer of an electron-conducting material (n-type) and hole-conducting material (p-type) [23]. Typically, hole-conductor materials are wide-bandgap semi- conductor oxides such as TiO2, ZnO, or SnO2, while hole-conductor materials are redox electrolytes including iodine (I  3 /I ), cobalt (CoI I/CoI I I) polypyridyl [24], or quasi-solid electrolyte [25]. Semiconductor materials are deposited on a mechan- ical support of glass or plastic coated with a transparent conducting oxide (TCO) acting as the anode. Glass coated with ﬂuorine-doped tin oxide (FTO) is the most commonly used substrate [26]. A monolayer of a dye-sensitizer at the interface of n- and p-type material is adsorbed on the semiconductors. The cell is completed by a second conducting glass substrate to hold the electrolyte solution, coated with a thin layer of a platinum catalyst. D|TiO2 + hν D|TiO2 (1) DTiO2 D+TiO2 + e|TiO2 (2) eTiO2 eCE + Electricity (3) OX + e|CE RE (4) Fig. 2 Flowchart to guide the designing of organic dye-sensitizer for DSSCs [36] [The ﬁgure is printed with permission from Elsevier] Computational Screening of Organic Dye-Sensitizers  191 D+|TiO2 + RE D|TiO2 + OX (5) e|TiO2 + D+|TiO2 D|TiO2 (6) e|TiO2 + OX RE (7) Upon the absorption of a photon by the dye-sensitizer, the process of photoexcita- tion is initiated. Following the photoexcitation (Fig. 1, Eq. 1), one electron from the dye-sensitizer (D) is injected into the conduction band (CB) of TiO2 (Fig. 1, Eq. 2), leaving the dye in its oxidized state. This mechanism of electron injection is known in the literature as type I. However, another type II mechanism is possible, in which the injection is direct from the dye to the CB of the semiconductor. Once injected into TiO2, the electron can recombine with the oxidized dye (Fig. 1, Eq. 6) or with I 3 in the electrolyte (Fig. 1, Eq. 7). Both pathways represent a loss of efﬁciency, and recombination at the TiO2/dye and TiO2/electrolyte must be minimized. After ﬂowing through the nanoparticles and reaching the anode, the electrons produce some work at the external load and are collected at the cathode. The oxidized dye is restored to its ground state by the electrolyte solution containing a redox couple (I 3 /I) and acetonitrile (CH3CN) as a solvent (Fig. 1, Eqs. 4 and 5), while the I 3 is in turn reduced to Iby the electrons at the cathode, completing the dye regeneration cycle [7, 25, 27]. The primary electron transfer processes with the representative equations are shown in Eqs. 17 , where CE, OX, and RE represents counter electrode, oxidant, and reductant, respectively. In DSSCs, the overall efﬁciency (η) of photo-to-electron conversion can be determined by the integral of short-circuit photocurrent density (J SC), open-circuit photovoltage (V OC), ﬁll factor (F F), and incident solar power (P I N) on the cell [23]. η = F F JSC  VOC PI N  100% (8) Another important parameter of a DSSC is its incident photon-to-current efﬁ- ciency (IPCE), i.e., the photocurrent density produced under the monochromatic illumination of wavelength divided by the photon ﬂux that strikes the cell at the speciﬁc wavelength, λ: I PC E(λ) = JSC(λ) e(λ) (9) The choice of electrolyte is critical because the intricate relationship between the two competitive processes: electron injection and dye regeneration in DSSCs is governed by redox reactions. 192 J. K. Roy et al. 3 Essential Criteria of an Efﬁcient Sensitizer Several salient features need to be considered to design an efﬁcient sensitizer for DSSCs to achieve a good performance. The main criteria are: (i) the dye should absorb over the whole spectrum of visible range and, if possible, over part of the near-IR region, (ii) it should have a large molar extinction coefﬁcient to harvest as much energy from the incoming photons as possible. Besides, the dye-anchoring group, in most cases a carboxylic group, should strongly bind to the semiconductor such as TiO2 for the efﬁcient electron injection. Moreover, for an optimal driving force of the electron injection process, the LUMO of the dye should be located over the anchoring group and lie energetically above the conduction band edge (CBE) of TiO2. The dyes photostability after the injection of the electron to the CB edge of TiO2 and dye regeneration is also the crucial criteria for designing an efﬁcient dye. Dye-sensitizers must ﬁrmly anchor to the oxide substrate by preserving or losing acidic hydrogen from COOH, PO3H2, and CCO2 units. The standard anchoring moieties for sensitizers are carboxyl (COOH) groups from cyanoacrylic acid, which can bind to TiO2 in different conﬁgurations such as a monodentate, bidentate, or bridge-bidentate fashion [28]. The type of binding modes of dye-sensitizers strongly affects the thermodynamic driving force for the electron injection process at the dye-semiconductor interface [28, 29]. Arylamine organic dyes (AODs) as a sensitizer have received great attention in the last decade due to their high molar absorption coefﬁcient, low cost, and tailored structural variety. So, it is possibletotunetheir molecular structurebynumerous ways to increase the PCE [8, 3033]. Although a number of AODs such as triphenylamine (TPA) and its derivatives such as carbazole and phenothiazine have been studied vastly, tetrahydroquinoline, indoline, and dialkylaniline have remained least explored [34, 35]. Over the years, researchers have developed efﬁcient ways of sensitizers design. The ﬂow chart described in Fig. 2 is the guidance to design dye-sensitizers from the computational background. 4 Factors Affecting the PCE of DSSCs 4.1 Short-Circuit Current Density (JSC) Short-circuitcurrentdensity(JSC)isoneofthemostcriticalparametersforimproving the PCE of DSSCs. JSC depends on such factors as the dyes absorption coefﬁcient and the interaction between the dye and the nanocrystalline TiO2 surface. It can be predicted by the following equation: JSC =  LHE(λ)injectηcollectdλ (10) Computational Screening of Organic Dye-Sensitizers  193 where LHE is light-harvesting efﬁciency at wavelength λ, inject is the quantum yield for electron injection, and ηcollect is the charge collection efﬁciency. Except ηcollect all other parameters strongly depend on the structural and quantum features of the dye. JSC can be controlled by taking care of mainly the absorption spectrum along with charge separation and recombination when the sensitizer is designed. A broad and strong absorption in the visible and near-infrared region is needed to obtain high short-circuit current density [31, 37, 38]. Quantum chemical methods have become one of the feasible reliable routes to reveal the relationship between the structure and optoelectronic properties for rapid screening of the designed dyes [8, 13, 31, 33]. The DFT/TDDFT approach can be used to evaluate JSC by estimating different physical properties such as light- harvesting efﬁciency, the feasibility of electron injection, dye regeneration, charge recombination, etc. Light-harvesting efﬁciency is also boosted by the intermolecular charge transfer (ICT) phenomenon and excited state photostability of the oxidized sensitizers [20]. Le Bahers et al. [39] prescribed different ICT-related indicators such as the charge transfer length (dCT ) between the centroids of the electrons and hole upon excitation, transferred charge (qCT ), and H index, which is an overall measure of the spatial extension degree of the electron and hole to evaluate the designed sensitizer from before synthesis. The charge-transfer (CT) model by Jacquemin et al. [40] for indoline dyes and diketopyrrolopyrroles deﬁned the spatial extent associated with an electronic transition-speciﬁc relevance to CT excitations. The author explored six schemes of partial atomic charge models (Mulliken, Hirsfeld, Bader, Natural, Merz-Kollman, and ChelpG) within the DFT/TDDFT computation framework. All the calculations were performed at the C-PCM/PBE0/6-31+G(d) level of theory in ethanol solvent. A new index, evaluated only from the computed density for the ground and excited state, was derived and tested on a family of molecules that can be considered as proto- types of pushpull chromophores. An spatial index like dCT which can be deﬁned by the distance between the centroids of density increase and depletion zones upon exci- tation estimated for different oligomers. For dCT , the electrostatic potential-derived framework underestimates the values for short oligomers whereas overestimates for a long chain. The density difference plots (Fig. 3) of indoline dyes indicate that there is a CT from the left-to-right side of the molecule as a result of electronic transition. Fig. 3 The plot of the density difference between the ground state and the excited state computed for the indolines with iso value 0.0005 a. u. [40] [The ﬁgure is reproduced with permission from RSC] 194 J. K. Roy et al. Marcus theory [41] can be implemented to elucidate the charge transfer rate within the molecule from the electron (λe), hole (λh), and total reorganization energy (λTotal), where λTotal = λh + λe, by following relation: kET = 1 λTotal  π ℏ2kBT V 2exp{λTotal 4k BT } (11) Except for λTotal all the parameters on the right-hand side are constant. Hence, the electron transfer rate constant (kET ) depends only on λTotal. The following equations used to estimate λh and λe, respectively. λh =  E+ 0 E+ +  + (E0 + E0 0) (12) λe =  E 0 E   + (E0 E0 0) (13) where E+ 0 (E 0 ) indicates the energy of cation (anion) computed from the ground- state optimized geometry of neutral molecule; E+ +(E ) is the energy of cation (anion) obtained from the optimized geometry of cation (anion); E0 +(E0 ) is the energy of neutral molecule calculated from the cationic (anionic) state; and E0 0 is the energy of a neutral molecule at the ground state. The rate of CT inversely related to λTotal. Hence, λTotal plays a vital role in analyzing the relationship between the electronic structure and electron injection density (JSC) [13, 30, 42]. Sharmoukh et al. [43] reported that the introduction of the additional donor moiety into the aromatic amine of DπA framework to form the DDπA architec- ture resulted in a red-shift of the absorption band along with a lower aggregation of the dyes. Besides, the thermal ability improved compared to the dyes of DπA architecture. Roy et al. [13] designed seven DDπA-based N,N-diphenyl- aniline(NNdPA)-based sensitizers and computed the absorption spectra with the use of the TDDFT/CAM-B3LYP/6-311G(d,p) level of theory. TDDFT calculation esti- mated that the absorption spectra red-shifted up to 1200 nm in the presence of a benzothiadiazole (BTD) unit and fused π-conjugation in the NNdPA dyes. Band-level alignment of the organic dyes before and after the adsorption on semi- conductor such as TiO2 governs the efﬁciency of electron injection. Excited-state oxidation potential (ESOP) and the ground-state oxidation potential (GSOP) are slight ca 0.2 eV lower, i.e., more negative and higher, i.e., more positive than that of the conduction band of TiO2 and the redox potential of electrolyte, respectively [6]. The appropriate tunning of the gradient of those values accomplish an efﬁcient electron transfer and dye regeneration processes. Pastore et al. [31] described the modeling of excited states and alignment of the energy levels under the DFT/TDDFT formalism by considering the two dyes, namely JK2 (TPA donor) and D102 (indoline donor) (Fig. 4). Different functionals (B3LYP, MPW1K, CAM-B3LYP) within the DFT formalism were used to estimate the excitation energies, ESOP, and GSOP. In the case of excitation energy, the authors found that the two dyes have quite different responses depending on the choice of functionals. Hence, it is necessary to use the Computational Screening of Organic Dye-Sensitizers  195 Fig. 4 Alignment of the ground- and excited-state energy levels before and after the adsorption of dyes on TiO2 [31] [The ﬁgure is reproduced with permission from ACS] adequately calibrated DFT/TDDFT approaches for a better description of the elec- tronic structure and GSOP/ESOP values of the studied dyes. Such an approach could result in an accuracy in the order of 0.20.3 eV. Katoh et al. [44] postulated that the electron injection efﬁciency can be predicted from the free energy change for the electron injection (Ginject) and which can be expressed as Ginject = Edye ox ETiO2 CB , where Edye ox is the dye excited-state oxidation potential, and ETiO2 CB is the conduction band energy of TiO2. The Edye ox obtained by subtractingtheﬁrstexcitationenergyfromtheground-stateoxidationpotential(Edye ox ) of the dye and, which is equal to the absolute magnitude of HOMO of the isolated dye. 4.2 Open-Circuit Voltage (Voc) The VOC is the voltage difference between the electrolyte redox potential (Eredox/q) and the quasi-Fermi potential (EF/q) of electrons in the semiconductor, TiO2 [45]. The relation can be expressed by Eq. 14, [45] and reveals that it depends on the recombination of the dye with the electrolyte, which might be an insufﬁcient blocking effectduetotherelativelylowadsorptiondensityofthedyes[46].Thus,itisnecessary to do molecular design of the structures and 3D shape of the dyes to enhance the blocking effect. Upshifting of ELUMO also contributes to increase the VOC and reduce charge recombination [42]. Energy levels should be matched with those of acceptor materials to ensure efﬁcient exciton dissociation at the donor/acceptor interface and also to obtain high VOC. Computational study of Tetrahydroquinoline (THQ) dyes revealed that the presence of a diketopyrrolopyrrole (DPP) unit is responsible for lowering VOC values for THQ5, THQ7THQ9; and the absence of DPP fragments 196 J. K. Roy et al. in THQ1THQ3 resulted in higher VOC values [33]. Another study of DDπA- based NNdPA dyes concluded that the judicious choice of fused-π-conjugation and the presence of a BTD unit suppress the charge recombination and increase the VOC [13]. VOC = EC B q + kT q ln( nc NC B ) Eredox q (14) where Eredox is the electrolyte Fermi-level, kT is the thermal energy, q is the unit charge, nc is the number of electrons in the CB, and NC B is the accessible density of CB states. After dye adsorption on semiconductor EC B can be expressed as the absolute value of the dipole moment of the individual dye molecule perpendicular to the surface of the semiconductor surface (μnormal) as given by Eq. 15 [47]. EC B = qμnormalγ ϵ0ϵ (15) where q is the electron charge, γ is the dyes surface concentration, ϵ0 and ϵ are the permittivity of the vacuum and the dielectric constant of the organic monolayer, respectively. Equation 14 can be used to estimate the VOC from the shifting of conduction band edge of TiO2 toward the more positive direction compared to pristine CB of TiO2 and from the number of electrons injected to the surface. The polar dyes adsorbed on the surface of TiO2 will make the conduction band shift, and thus increase the VOC of the cell, for a deﬁned redox shuttle in DSSCs [48]. Li et al. [49] reported that the values of EC B range from 0.26 to 0.45 eV, showing quite similar CB shifts caused by different dyes. By taking full account of both EC B and nc the calculated data could explain the experimental VOC well. Roy et al. [8] also estimated the VOC of the designed indoline dyes by quantifying the three main factors such as EC B, μnormal, and the charge redistribution of bonded Ti & O atoms after the dye adsorption. This estimation was carried out using the natural population analysis (NPA) (see Fig. 5). μnormal of the dyes computed with the solvent effect, based on the protocol suggested by the Grätzel et al. [50], considering the C2 axis of the carboxylate in dye parallel to the x-axis and the TiO2 surface parallel to the yz-plane. Electron recombination is one of the undesirable steps that reduces the V OC of DSSCs by combining electrons to either redox couple of electrolytes or oxidized dyes other than the CB of the semiconductor. Richards et al. [51] reported that the concentration of free iodine around the semiconductor facilitates the recombination of electrons to redox couple, allowing I2 to form non-covalent halogen bonds with heteroatoms (such as O, N, S, etc.) of the sensitizers. Predicting electron recombina- tion, one might consider three different binding modes of I2 like, (i) with the nitrogen atom of CN moiety, (ii) sulfur atom thiophene unit near anchoring group, and (iii) sulfur atom thiophene unit far from anchoring group. Roy et al. [33] optimized all the three conﬁgurations of seven THQ dyes (Fig. 6) and optimized to predict the viability of the dyes in terms of electron recombination. Author reported that the iodine dimers Computational Screening of Organic Dye-Sensitizers  197 Fig. 5 Shifting of conduction band edge of TiO2 after the adsorption of indoline dyes [8] [The ﬁgure is reproduced with permission from ACS] Fig. 6 Optimized structures of the THQ dye-I2 complex. Color code: Gray, Yellow, Red, Blue, and Purple representing C, S, O, N, and I atoms [33] [The ﬁgure is reproduced with permission from Scientiﬁc Reports] are weekly bound as the bond lengths are larger than its covalent radii (2.86 Å). The CN-I2 bond lengths are smaller than the net Van der Waals radii 3.53 Å, but larger than the net covalent radii 2.03 Å of the involved atoms. The same trend was also observed in the case of S-I2 bonds. Ding et al. [30] and Xu et al. [53] also conﬁrm the observations for indoline dyes and T-shaped benzimidazole dyes, respectively. As mentioned at the beginning of this section, seven THQ-based dyes have been designed by Roy et al. to study different photophysical features of the designed dyes. Non-covalent hetero-halogen bond lengths have been computed to reveal the interaction of iodine electrolyte with dye-sensitizers. The trend of the CNI2 bond lengths is THQ9  THQ7  THQ8  THQ2  THQ1  THQ3  THQ5 while the 198 J. K. Roy et al. length of IA-IB is following: THQ5  THQ3  THQ1  THQ2  THQ8  THQ7  THQ9. Moreover, the sequence of the S1I2 bond length (except THQ1 and THQ2) is THQ5  THQ7  THQ8  THQ9  THQ3, and the trend for ICID is THQ3  THQ9  THQ7  THQ8  THQ5. In both cases, the iodine dimers separation distances increase with the increase of dye and iodine bond lengths [33]. The additives like N-methyl-benzimidazole (NMBI), 2-methylquinoline (MQ), and 4-t-butylpyridine (TBP) are commonly used to lessen the iodine concentration in the proximity of TiO2. The bond lengths of the optimized additiveI2 adducts are 2.56 Å, 2.64 Å, and 2.55 Å, respectively, which are smaller than that of the dyeI2 complexes, indicates that the photophysical characteristics of the designed sensitizers are sufﬁcient to reduce the iodine concentration near the TiO2 surface [8]. 4.3 Interfacial Properties Interfacial phenomena like electronic properties and the interaction of speciﬁc dye with the surface play a key role in photovoltaics. Cluster and periodic DFT method- ologies have been explored by many researchers to describe the interface and in most of the cases, the choice of model is case-speciﬁc [19, 33]. Both models have advan- tages and disadvantages over one another. To implement continuum solvent models with hybrid exchangecorrelation functional, cluster models are suitable. However, sometimes cluster models fail to globally describe the surface electronic structures. In contrast, a periodic approach to be preferred for the detailed description of the surface properties without ﬁnite-size effects [52]. A shortcoming of the periodic approach is long-range order correction is expected for the surfaces which might be eliminated by increasing supercell sizes [55]. To investigate the interfacial properties like band-level alignment of the semicon- ductor and adsorbed dyes with respect to electron injection or the electrolytes redox potential, cluster, and periodic methodologies have been reported in the literature [8, 21, 54, 56]. DFT approaches considered different cluster models to obtain a judicious explanation of the local properties of TiO2 and possible interactions with various indi- vidual organic dyes [8]. Very small to large TiO2 clusters such as (TiO2)16, (TiO2)38 [30], and (TiO2)6 [54] used to investigate a wide variety of organic and inorganic dyes. Multiscale simulation approaches to nonadiabatic molecular dynamics simula- tion also performed to gain insight into the photophysical characteristics of isolated T-shaped organic and indoline dyes, respectively [56, 57]. Newns-Anderson model could be used to estimate the interfacial electron injection rateof dye-sensitizer tothesemiconductor inamuchsimpler fashion, comparedtothe classical Marcus approach [58, 59]. This approach considers only the changes in the electronic structure after the photoinduced surface electron transfer of the adsorbed dye-sensitizers, contrary to the Marcus detailed conﬁguration interactions. The initial photoexcitation involves the HOMO to LUMO transition of the dye-sensitizers, and the anchored LUMO levels are expected to show signiﬁcant overlapping with the semiconductors conduction band. So, it is important to perform a detailed analysis Computational Screening of Organic Dye-Sensitizers  199 of the dye/TiO2 electronic structure, and the salient features can be deﬁned in terms of theenergyshiftrelativetotheisolateddyeandthelifetimebroadening(ℏ ).Theterm, , is the half-width at the half-maximum of the dyes PDOS coupled to the continuum of the semiconductor (TiO2) CB states. The width of the LUMO broadening can be deﬁned as [57] ℏ =  pi|εi Eads LU MO| with Eads LU MO =  piεi where pi = Aads j (cA i j) 2/ n j (cA i j) 2, where εi is the energy of the orbital corresponding to pi and Eads LU MO is the energy of the TiO2 bound dyes LUMO. Then the electron injection lifetime, τinj, can be computed as follows: τinj = ℏ 2π τinj(fs) = 658 (meV) (16) Persson et al. [59] computed the electron injection lifetimes of perylene derivatives dyes with the above formalism. The calculated electron transfer times are within 5 and 10 fs for formic acid and the conjugated acrylic acid bridges, whereas the saturated propionic acid bridge is about 35 fs. The calculated electron injection times are of the equivalent order of magnitude as the corresponding experimental values qualitatively follow the experimental trend concerning different substitutions. 4.4 Planar Electrostatic Average Protentional Roy et al. [33] implemented periodic DFT approaches to explore the dye/TiO2 inter- face in the Vienna ab initio Simulation Package (VASP) using generalized gradient approximation (GGA). Author used PBE and optB86b-vdW functionals to compute electrostatic potential difference (EPD) and charge density difference (CDD). The van der Waals (vdW) interactions are more important in the longer alkyl chain, considering this interaction vdW density functional was employed. It is well known that the default DFT always underestimates the bandgap of the semiconductor. To improve the description of the electronic structure of the onsite Coulomb interaction of 3d-states of Ti, an effective potential equal to 3.5 eV is applied under Hubbard formalism, which is called the DFT + U method. Under this framework, charge redistribution between the organic dye and TiO2 surface before and after the dyes adsorption was investigated (Fig. 7a). The relative atomic coordinates of dyes and surface before and after the adsorption kept the same. By analyzing 3D CDD, 1D planar average CDD and EPD author conﬁrmed that the charge is originated from the dye molecule to the interface. Besides, when the charge transfer rate avails the equilibrium state, a built-in electric ﬁeld is generated at the interface of dye/TiO2, which enhances the electron injection from dye to CB of TiO2. 200 J. K. Roy et al. Fig. 7 Different interfacial properties of the studied THQ1 dye. a 1D planar averaged charge density of dye/TiO2 interface where red (after absorption), dashed (free dye), and dotted (surface), b 1D planar average charge density difference as a function of position in the Z-direction, in Å. c 3D charge density difference with an isovalue of 0.006e/Å3. Blue (Red) indicates charge accumulation (depletion) in plane. The vertical cyan line represents the interface line of dye/TiO2 system [33] [The ﬁgure is printed with permission from Scientiﬁc Reports] 4.5 Photostability in the Excited State of the Dyes The longevity of DSSCs also depends on the photostability of the oxidized dyes. DFT and TDDFT approaches can be implemented to build a swift and robust technique to screen the most photostable dyes based on their aligned ESOP and GSOP. Roy et al. estimated the photostability and excited-state lifetime (τe) of DDπA-based NNdPA dyes using B3LYP/6-311G(d,p) level of theory. Figure 8 depicts the GSOP, ESOP, and the FMOs of dye@cluster complexes. Theτe, which aids the efﬁcient Computational Screening of Organic Dye-Sensitizers  201 Fig. 8 Alignment of the energy of NNdPA dyes@cluster complexes along with the frontier molecular orbitals (HOMO, LUMO) and CB edge of TiO2 (dotted violet line) [13] charge transfer, is vital for evaluating the dyes long-term stability. Stable cationic forms with extended excited-state lifetime help to qualitatively evaluate the charge transfer phenomenon from dye to CB edge of TiO2. The τe of the NNdPA dyes esti- mated by the relation τe = 1.499/f E2, where E is the excitation energy (cm1) of the lowest electronic state and f is the oscillator strength. The trend of the τe values is NNdPA06  NNdPA01  NNdPA08  NNdPA07  NNdPA10  NNdPA03  NNdPA04. Among seven dyes, NNdPA04 with the largest extended lifetime ensures efﬁcient electron injection into the CB of TiO2, and stability after electron injec- tion. The judicious choice of effective conjugation length and a co-acceptor (BTD unit) improved the excited-state lifetime of NNdPA dyes. A deeper understanding of structural attributes in the designed NNdPA dyes leads to achieving improved excited-state properties. By looking into the structure and results of NNdPA04 and NNdPA06 dyes, one can conclude that three different factors are responsible for the extended excited-state lifetime (i) planar fused-π-conjugation, (ii) co-acceptor like BTD, and (iii) the number of heteroatoms present in the dyes [13]. 4.6 TDDFT Nonadiabatic Molecular Dynamics (NAMD) Simulation Chiu et al. [57] implemented a TDDFT atomistic nonadiabatic molecular dynamics (NAMD) simulation in the femtosecond scale to understand the fast photoinduced electron transfer process from the donor to acceptor of DAπA-based organic dyes. The CT mechanism that stems from the thermal energy after photoexcitation 202 J. K. Roy et al. is addressed by the NAMD simulation. The thermal ﬂuctuation of the atoms at the photoexcited state affects the molecular structures (in both ground and excited state), and energies of donor/acceptor along with the CT behavior. Also, the bond strength of the photoexcited molecules is weaker than that of the ground state. TDDFT NAMD simulation explores the ﬂuctuation of excited electron density, between internal and terminal acceptors, due to the thermal energy gradient allows the electron density not to ﬂow signiﬁcantly toward the terminal acceptor. The photoexcited electron density delocalized over the BTD and CAA fragments of the TPA-BTD-Th-CAA. This study revealed that the thermal energys vibrational modes are not populated enough to push a signiﬁcant amount of photoexcited electron density on the internal acceptor to the terminal acceptor. 5 Conclusions In this chapter, we have outlined different approaches to estimate/predict the photo- physical properties of dye-sensitizers for DSSCs by employing the DFT/TDDFT framework. We emphasized the two critical factors responsible for the dye perfor- mance: short-circuit current density (JSC) and open-circuit voltage (VOC). Both prop- erties can be tuned by molecular engineering for the isolated dye-sensitizers. To predictJSC, one might consider the absorption spectra of isolated dyes, intermolec- ular charge transfer (ICT), spatial CT index, reorganization energy, and the band-level alignment of the dyes and semiconductors. We have also outlined the modeling of VOC by considering the EC B of TiO2 after dye adsorption and non-covalent halogen bond interactions. The details of DFT modeling of the interfacial phenomena of dye/TiO2, including charge transfer, planar average electrostatic potential, and the photostability of the dyes in the excited state, have also been described. However, one needs to remember that DSSCs consist of many individual components, which are critical to the operation of the device. Particular failure of any single component may result in lower photoconversion efﬁciency. We anticipate that further developments in DFT formalism will be able to take care of multiscale, complete description of all the various mechanism occurred in a DSSC, including regeneration of sensitizers by the electrolyte and reducing the I  3 ions by the metal cathode. The availability of such details will facilitate the development of efﬁcient DSSCS. Acknowledgements The authors appreciate the ﬁnancial support of this work from the National Science Foundation under Grant Number NSF OIA-1757220 and the Department of Energy under Grant Number DE-SC0018322. Conﬂicts of Interest The authors declare no conﬂict of interest. Computational Screening of Organic Dye-Sensitizers  203 References 1. Service RF (2005) Solar energy. Is it time to shoot for the sun? Science (New York, NY) 309:54851 2. Potocnik J (2007) Renewable energy sources and the realities of setting an energy agenda. Science (New York, NY) 315:810811 3. REN21 (2019) Global Status Report, Paris: REN21 Secretariat. https://www.ren21.net/reports/ global-status-report/. Accessed 28 August 2020 4. Rahn Kim M, Ma D (2014) Quantum-dot-based solar cells: recent advances, strategies, and challenges. J Phys Chem Lett 6:8599 5. ORegan B, Grätzel M (1991) A low-cost, high-efﬁciency solar cell based on dye-sensitized colloidal TiO2 ﬁlms. Nature 353:737740 6. Kalyanasundaram K, Grätzel M (1998) Applications of functionalized transition metal complexes in photonic and optoelectronic devices. Coord Chem Rev 177:347414 7. Hagfeldt A, Grätzel M (2000) Molecular photovoltaics. Acc Chem Res 33:269277 8. Roy JK, Kar S, Leszczynski J (2019) Electronic structure and optical properties of designed photo-efﬁcient indoline-based dye-sensitizers with DAπA framework. J Phys Chem C 123:33093320 9. Shibayama N, Inoue Y, Abe M, Kajiyama S, Ozawa H, Miura H, Arakawa H (2015) Novel near- infrared carboxylated 1,3-indandione sensitizers for highly efﬁcient ﬂexible dye-sensitized solar cells. Chem Commun 51:1279512798 10. Zhang W, Wu Y, Zhu H, Chai Q, Liu J, Li H, Song X, Zhu W-H (2015) Rational molecular engineering of indoline-based DAπA organic sensitizers for long-wavelength-responsive dye-sensitized solar cells. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 7:2680226810 11. Wu Y, Zhu W (2013) Organic sensitizers from DπA to DAπA: effect of the internal electron-withdrawing units on molecular absorption, energy levels and photovoltaic performances. Chem Soc Rev 42:20392058 12. Aono C, Minoru D, Coutinho-Neto M, Miotto R, Homem-de-Mello P (2018) CAHM1: a theory-based proposal for a new DSSC DAπA dye. J Phys Chem C 122:272562726 13. Roy JK, Kar S, Leszczynski J (2020) Revealing the photophysical mechanism of N,N- diphenyl-aniline based sensitizers with the DDπA framework: theoretical insights. ACS Sustain Chem Eng 8:1332813341 14. Hagberg DP, Yum JH, Lee HJ, de Angelis F, Marinado T, Karlsson KM, Humphry-Baker R, Sun L, Hagfeldt A, Grätzel M, Nazeeruddin MK (2008) Molecular engineering of organic sensitizers for dye-sensitized solar cell applications. J Am Chem Soc 130:62596266 15. Capodilupo AL, de Marco L, Corrente GA, Giannuzzi R, Fabiano E, Cardone A, Gigli G, Ciccarella G (2016) Synthesis and characterization of a new series of dibenzofulvene based organic dyes for DSSCs. Dyes Pigm 130:7989 16. Kakiage K, Aoyama Y, Yano T, Oya K, Fujisawa J, Hanaya M (2015) Highly-efﬁcient dye- sensitized solar cells with collaborative sensitization by silyl-anchor and carboxy-anchor dyes. Chem Commun 51:1589415897 17. Ozawa H, Sugiura T, Kuroda T, Nozawa K, Arakawa H (2016) Highly efﬁcient dye-sensitized solar cells based on a ruthenium sensitizer bearing a hexylthiophene modiﬁed terpyridine ligand. J Mater Chem a 4:17621770 18. Pastore M, Mosconi E, de Angelis F, Grätzel M (2010) A computational investigation of organic dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells: benchmark, strategies, and open issues. J Phys Chem C 114:72057212 19. Pastore M, Fantacci S, de Angelis F (2010) Ab initio determination of ground and excited state oxidation potentials of organic chromophores for dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem C 114:2274222750 20. Martsinovich N, Troisi A (2011) Theoretical studies of dye-sensitised solar cells: from electronic structure to elementary processes. Energy Environ Sci 4:4473 204 J. K. Roy et al. 21. Yella A, Lee H-W, Tsao HN, Yi C, Chandiran AK, Nazeeruddin MK, Diau EW-G, Yeh C-Y, Zakeeruddin SM, Grätzel M (2011) Porphyrin-sensitized solar cells with cobalt (II/III)-based redox electrolyte exceed 12 percent efﬁciency. Science (New York, NY) 334:629634 22. Han L, Islam A, Chen H, Malapaka C, Chiranjeevi B, Zhang S, Yang X, Yanagida M (2012) High-efﬁciency dye-sensitized solar cell with a novel co-adsorbent. Energy Environ Sci 5:6057 23. Grätzel M (2009) Recent advances in sensitized mesoscopic solar cells. Acc Chem Res 42:17881798 24. Wang M, Chamberland N, Breau L, Moser J-E, Humphry-Baker R, Marsan B, Zakeeruddin SM, Grätzel M (2010) An organic redox electrolyte to rival triiodide/iodide in dye-sensitized solar cells. Nat Chem 2:385389 25. Sauvage F (2014) A review on current status of stability and knowledge on liquid electrolyte- based dye-sensitized solar cells. Adv Chem 2014:123 26. Hagfeldt A, Boschloo G, Sun L, Kloo L, Pettersson H (2010) Dye-sensitized solar cells. Chem Rev 110:65956663 27. Grätzel M (2001) Photoelectrochemical cells. Nature 414:338344 28. Anselmi C, Mosconi E, Pastore M, Ronca E, de Angelis F (2012) Adsorption of organic dyes on TiO2 surfaces in dye-sensitized solar cells: interplay of theory and experiment. Phys Chem Chem Phys 14:15963 29. Muñoz-García AB, Pavone M (2015) Structure and energy level alignment at the dye-electrode interface in p-type DSSCs: new hints on the role of anchoring modes from ab initio calculations. Phys Chem Chem Phys 17:1223812246 30. Ding WL, Wang DM, Geng ZY, Zhao XL, Yan YF (2013) Molecular engineering of indoline- based D-A-π-A organic sensitizers toward high efﬁciency performance from ﬁrst-principles calculations. J Phys Chem C 117:1738217398 31. Pastore M, Fantacci S, de Angelis F (2013) Modeling excited states and alignment of energy levels in dye-sensitized solar cells: successes, failures, and challenges. J Phys Chem C 117:36853700 32. Kar S, Roy JK, Leszczynski J (2017) In silico designing of power conversion efﬁcient organic lead dyes for solar cells using todays innovative approaches to assure renewable energy for future. NPJ Comput Mater 3:22 33. Roy JK, Kar S, Leszczynski J (2018) Insight into the optoelectronic properties of designed solar cells efﬁcient tetrahydroquinoline dye-sensitizers on TiO2(101) surface: ﬁrst principles approach. Sci Rep 8:10997 34. Liang M, Chen J (2013) Arylamine organic dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells. Chem Soc Rev 42:3453 35. Mishra A, Fischer MKR, Bäuerle P (2009) Metal-free organic dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells: from structure: property relationships to design rules. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl 48:2474 2499 36. Chen CJ, Zhang J, Fu ZH, Zhu HC, Li H, Zhu XF (2019) Theoretical insights on the comparison of champion dyes SM315 and C275 used for DSSCs reaching over 12% efﬁciency and the further optimization of C275. Spectrochim Acta - Part A: Mol Biomol Spectrosc 222:117217 37. Quintana M, Edvinsson T, Hagfeldt A, Boschloo G (2006) Comparison of dye-sensitized ZnO and TiO2 solar cells: studies of charge transport and carrier lifetime. J Phys Chem C 111:10351041 38. Baumann A, Watson J, Delcamp JH (2019) Robust, scalable synthesis of the bulky hagfeldt donor for dye-sensitized solar cells. Chemsuschem 12:15 39. le Bahers T, Adamo C, Cioﬁni I (2011) A qualitative index of spatial extent in charge-transfer excitations. J Chem Theory Comput 7:24982506 40. Jacquemin D, le Bahers T, Adamo C, Cioﬁni I (2012) What is the best atomic charge model to describe through-space charge-transfer excitations? Phys Chem Chem Phys 14:5383 41. Marcus RAR (1993) Electron transfer reactions in chemistry. Theory and experiment. J Electroanal Chem 438:251259 42. Ning Z, Fu Y, Tian H, Brabec CJ, Erk P, Hagfeldt A, Weis J, Pschirer N, Hagfeldt A, Hammarström L, Grätzel M, Durrant JR, Bignozzi CA, Grätzel M (2010) Improvement of Computational Screening of Organic Dye-Sensitizers  205 dye-sensitized solar cells: what we know and what we need to know. Energy Environ Sci 3:1170 43. Sharmoukh W, Cong J, Gao J, Liu P, Daniel Q, Kloo L (2018) Molecular engineering of D DπA-based organic sensitizers for enhanced dye-sensitized solar cell performance. ACS Omega 3:38193829 44. Katoh R, Furube A, Yoshihara T, Hara K, Fujihashi G, Takano S, Murata S, Arakawa H, Tachiya M (2004) Efﬁciencies of electron injection from excited N3 dye into nanocrystalline semiconductor (ZrO2, TiO2, ZnO, Nb2O5, SnO2, In2O3) ﬁlms. J Phys Chem B 108:48184822 45. Marinado T, Nonomura K, Nissfolk J, MartinK K, Hagberg DP, Sun L, Mori S, Hagfeldt A (2009) How the nature of triphenylamine-polyene dyes in dye-sensitized solar cells affects the open-circuit voltage and electron lifetimes. Langmuir 26:25922598 46. Kono T, Masaki N, Nishikawa M, Tamura R, Matsuzaki H, Kimura M, Mori S (2016) Inter- facial charge transfer in dye-sensitized solar cells using SCN-free terpyridine-coordinated Ru complex dye and Co complex redox couples. ACS Appl Mater Interfaces 8:1667716683 47. Rühle S, Greenshtein M, Chen SG, Merson A, Pizem H, Sukenik CS, Cahen D, Zaban A (2005) Molecular adjustment of the electronic properties of nanoporous electrodes in dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem B 109:1890718913 48. Ronca E, Pastore M, Belpassi L, Tarantelli F, de Angelis F, Snijders JG, Ziegler T, Kay A, Zakeeruddin SM, Grätzel M, Nazeeruddin MK, Grätzel M (2013) Inﬂuence of the dye molec- ular structure on the TiO2 conduction band in dye-sensitized solar cells: disentangling charge transfer and electrostatic effects. Energy Environ Sci 6:183193 49. Li P, Cui Y, Song C, Zhang H (2017) A systematic study of phenoxazine-based organic sensitizers for solar cells. Dyes Pigm 137:1223 50. Chen P, Yum JH, de Angelis F, Mosconi E, Fantacci S, Moon S-J, Baker RH, Ko J, Nazeeruddin MdK, Grätzel M (2009) High open-circuit voltage solid-state dye-sensitized solar cells with organic dye. Nano Lett 9:24872492 51. Raga SR, Barea EM, Fabregat-Santiago F (2012) Analysis of the origin of open circuit voltage in dye solar cells. J Phys Chem Lett 3:16291634 52. Richards CE, Anderson AY, Martiniani S, Law C, ORegan BC (2012) The mechanism of iodine reduction by TiO2 electrons and the kinetics of recombination in dye-sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem Lett 3:19801984 53. Xu B, Li Y, Song P, Ma F, Sun M (2017) Photoactive layer based on T-shaped benzimidazole dyes used for solar cell: from photoelectric properties to molecular design. Sci Rep 7:45688 54. Berardo E, Kaplan F, Bhaskaran-Nair K, Shelton WA, van Setten MJ, Kowalski K, Zwijnenburg MA (2017) Benchmarking the fundamental electronic properties of small TiO2 nanoclusters by GW and coupled cluster theory calculations. J Chem Theory Comput 13:38143828 55. SahaiN,RossoKM(2006)Computationalmolecularbasisforimprovedsilicasurfacecomplex- ation models. In: Lützenkirchen J (ed) Surface complexation modelling. Elsevier, Amsterdam, Netherlands, pp 359396 56. Zhang W, Heng P, Su H, Ren T, Wang L, Zhang J (2018) Rational design of high-efﬁciency organic dyes in dye-sensitized solar cells by multiscale simulations. J Phys Chem C 122:25219 25228 57. Chiu C-C, Sheng Y-C, Lin W-J, Juwita R, Tan C-J, Tsai H-HG (2018) Effects of internal electron-withdrawing moieties in DAπA organic sensitizers on photophysical properties for DSSCs: a computational study. ACS Omega 3:433445 58. Muscat JP, Newns DM (1978) Chemisorption on metals. Prog Surf Sci 9:143 59. Persson P, Lundqvist MJ, Ernstorfer R, Goddard WA, Willig F (2006) Quantum chemical calculations of the inﬂuence of anchor-cum-spacer groups on femtosecond electron transfer times in dye-sensitized semiconductor nanocrystals. J Chem Theory Comput 2:441451 Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes Used in Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells Jillella Gopala Krishna, Probir Kumar Ojha, and Kunal Roy Abstract The present chapter reports a partial least squares (PLS)-regression-based chemometric model for the carbazole class of dyes used in dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) to predict the absorption maxima (λmax) values. Quantitative prediction of the λmax values can be an important criterion for molecular design of new dye molecules. We have used only 2D descriptors for the model development purpose as the quantum chemical and electrochemical analyses are time consuming. The devel- oped model was validated extensively using internationally acceptable statistical and validation parameters. A seven-descriptor PLS model with one latent variable (LV) was developed. The statistical results suggested that the model was statistically signiﬁcant. The majority of the descriptors involved in the model are easily inter- pretable 2D atom pair descriptors. The model suggests that presence of nitrogen and sulfur atoms at the topological distance of 8, presence of nitrogen and oxygen atoms at the topological distance of 4, higher frequency of oxygen and sulfur atoms at the topological distance of 5, higher frequency of two nitrogen atoms at the topolog- ical distance of 5, presence of two oxygen atoms at the topological distance of 4, presence of carbon atoms connected with three aromatic bonds, and presence of two sulfur atoms at the topological distance of 4 in the dye molecules shifted the λmax value toward the longer wavelength. From the information obtained from the model, it has also been suggested that highly conjugated π-systems shift the λmax values toward the longer wavelength. Finally, it can be concluded that the identiﬁed features from the PLS model for the carbazole derivatives may be employed for the design and development of new carbazole dyes and to predict λmax values before they are synthesized. J. Gopala Krishna Department of Pharmacoinformatics, National Institute of Pharmaceutical Educational and Research (NIPER), Chunilal Bhawan, 168, Manikata Main Road, Kolkata 700054, India P. K. Ojha  K. Roy (B) Drug Theoretics and Cheminformatics Laboratory, Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Jadavpur University, 188 Raja S C Mullick Road, Kolkata 700032, India e-mail: kunal.roy@jadavpuruniversity.in URL: http://sites.google.com/site/kunalroyindia/  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021 J. K. Roy et al. (eds.), Development of Solar Cells, Challenges and Advances in Computational Chemistry and Physics 32, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-69445-6_9 207 208 J. Gopala Krishna et al. 1 Introduction Energy is a vital force in human life. Until now, non-renewable energy sources like fossil fuels, crude oil, and natural gas have been used as major energy resources, which are also the reason for environmental problems. This problem can be solved by using one of the potential sources of renewable energies, i.e., solar energy, which contributes to sustainability, cleanliness, and low risk. If we were able to use solar energy (renewable energy source) to the full extent for day-to-day life activities, it would have a great impact on humans. In the eighteenth century, a French scientist named Edmond Becquerel ﬁrst discovered the photovoltaic effect. It becomes the ﬁrst step for the evolution of solar energy harvesting applications [1]. In the ﬁrst- generation solar cells, silicon was used for attaining the photovoltaic effect. In the year of 1887, German scientist Hertz ﬁrst examined the photoelectric effect and found that photons present in the light can eject free electrons from a solid surface (usually conductor) to create power [2]. However, the early results from the study showed that the same process produced more power when the conductor is experienced with the UV light instead of extra intense visible light. The evolution of the solar cells is majorly categorized into three different types based on the properties of mate- rials and time period of generation [1]. For example, crystal and amorphous (silicon based) materials are a part in the ﬁrst-generation solar cells, whereas the second- generation solar cells are made up of semiconductor materials (IIIIV group chalco- genides/phosphide materials). Emerging materials such as dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs), quantum dots, and perovskites are the third-generation solar cells. During 1953 to 1956, the physicists worked in the Bell laboratory to initiate fabrication of the solar cells using silicon solar cells with the efﬁciency of 6% which was quite efﬁcient compared to the earlier used selenium. This incident motivated the use of solar cells to power up the electrical equipment and led to this kind of efforts to get the new devices with better performance for commercialization. After 10 years, this continuous effort produced the second-generation thin ﬁlm solar cells. These are emerging thin ﬁlm solar cells having capability to convert 30% solar radiation to electrical energy. In this generation, copper indium gallium selenide (CIGS), cadmium telluride (CdTe), and gallium arsenide (GaAs) were used as the semiconductor materials. Till 1990, second-generation solar cells made from above materials were commercially avail- able [3]. Later, the third-generation solar cells have emerged; this generation includes DSSCs, organic/polymer solar cells, quantum dot solar cells, perovskite solar cells, etc. This generation has PCE values ranging from respectable to very high power conversion efﬁciencies values [4], and they have their own advantages such as low processing costs and less environmental impact that induce the intensive research and development in this area. All the generations of solar cells with suitable examples are depicted in Fig. 1. The dye-sensitized solar cell (DSSC) is a photovoltaic equipment which employs a dye to absorb the solar energy to generate charge/power carriers to be collected as harnessed solar electricity. The structure of DSSCs constitutes a photo-sensitive dye coated with TiO2, deposited on a transparent electrode, redox couple (I/I3) with Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes  209 Fig. 1 Evolution of the solar cells an electrolyte solution, and a counter electrode which is a platinized conductive glass substrate. To upgrade the efﬁciency of DSSC, the HOMO and LUMO of dyes should locate under iodide redox couple (I/I3) and position on the top of the conduction band (CB) of the TiO2 semiconductor for improving the electron regeneration and efﬁcient electron injection. In addition, the dye should be sensitive to all visible colors (UV/Visible (UV/Vis), and near-IR range) of the solar spectrum to increase broadband light harvesting. Most of the incident light energy (around 50%) falls in the infrared region, the remaining about 30% of light energy falls in the visible region. The UV and visible range cover photons which have sufﬁcient energy to pump electrons in semiconducting material, and this may be efﬁciently used for charge generation. The ideal dye sensitizer must possess a wide absorption range in visible light, and it might contain anchoring groups like carboxylic or phosphonic acids. The DSSC working procedure requires the solar energy to be absorbed by the sensitizers (dyes) that result in the ground state dye molecules going to the excited state. These excited electrons are released into the conduction band of TiO2 [5, 6] after the process in which the dye gets oxidized. The oxidized dye is then neutralized to the ground state by I3/Iredox system. The basic structure of a DSSC is given in Fig. 2. In recent years, dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) are gaining more popularity because of their promising performance and cost-effectiveness. So, molecular design and synthesis of organic functional dyes with high yield ratio have become a focus of 210 J. Gopala Krishna et al. Fig. 2 Basic structure of dye-sensitized solar cell current research in view of their potential applications as sensitizers in dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs). So far, different types of organic dyes have been used as a sensi- tizer in DSSCs, among which the most successful dyes to date are based on ruthenium (Ru) complex systems (N3 and N719 dyes) [7, 8], for which power conversion efﬁ- ciencies (PCE) of up to 1011% under standard global air mass (AM) 1.5 solar condi- tions [9, 10]. Unfortunately, Ruthenium is of immoderate and minimal availability. Therefore, researchers have developed metal free or organic dyes as alternatives for Ru-complexes to surpass the disadvantages and adopt the advantages like high molar coefﬁcient, facile modiﬁcation, low-cost materials, and high photoconversion efﬁciency. 1.1 Mechanism of DSSCs The following stages reveal how DSSCs convert the light (photons) into power. Stage 1: In the initial stage, all the dye molecules (photosensitizer) lie in the ground state. When the incident photon (light) falls on the photosensitizer present on the TiO2 surface (non-conductive), the dye molecules get excited from their ground state to a higher energy state (S*) D ye + Photon D ye Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes  211 Stage 2: After the excitation, the dye molecules transfer the electrons to conduc- tion band of the semiconductor, then the dye gets oxidized. Here, the electrons move freely because the semiconductor (TiO2) energy level becomes conductive, electrons get transferred to the counter electrode. D ye+ T i O2 e (T i O2) + D ye+ e (T i O2) + Counterelectrode(C.E) T i O2 + e (C.E) + Electricalener g y Then the transported electrons from TiO2 are collected in the current collector via diffusion process. Stage3:Theoxidizeddyemoleculesregaintheelectronfromtheiodideelectrolyte solution. D ye+ + ID ye + I 3 Stage 4: Reciprocally, iodide electrolyte is regenerated by reduction of tri-iodide on the counter electrode. I 3 + E(C.E) I+ C.E The efﬁciency of dye-sensitized solar cell mainly depends on four energy levels of the components: Excited (LUMO) and the ground states (HOMO) of the dye molecules, the conduction band edge of the TiO2 electrode and the redox potential of the mediator (I/I3) in the electrolyte [1]. The detailed mechanism is depicted in Fig. 3. 1.2 Ideal Characteristics of the Dye Used in DSSCs The ideal dye sensitizer should follow certain considerations necessarily. The dye must securely apply on the semiconductor surface and it should penetrate electrons into the conduction band with a quantum yield of unity. They must possess high redox potential for rapid regeneration via donation of electrons from the electrolyte, and it should last not less than 108 turnovers under illumination which is equivalent to 20 years exposure under sunlight. Calculation of all necessary parameters and then synthesizing a dye is much difﬁcult to practice. Thus, here, a trial and error method may help to ﬁnd appropriate dye sensitizers [7, 8]. Quantitative prediction of the absorption maxima (λmax) using the molecular structure of a dye can be a signiﬁcant criterion for molecular design of new dye molecules. Thermodynamic studies such as density functional theory (DFT) and ab initio calculations have been performed previously for the prediction of the absorption maxima (λmax). Although such calculation methods are tedious, time consuming, and the results are not easy 212 J. Gopala Krishna et al. Fig. 3 Detailed mechanism of dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) to analyze [11]. Furthermore, it was shown that the DFT calculations for some of the dyes give poor results. So, there is a need to predict a large number of dyes in a fast and accurate manner. In this perspective, quantitative structureproperty rela- tionship (QSPR) using easily computable descriptors to furnish promising results for the prediction of λmax values of the dyes based on descriptors derived solely from the molecular structure to ﬁt experimental data. QSPR has many advantages as compared with the other techniques such as utilization of limited resources, less expense, and time efﬁcient outcome [12]. Because of these motivating qualities, one can recommend QSAR/QSPR in early stages of property detection. Till now, many researchers developed QSPR models for DSSCs using PCE properties of several classes of dyes [11, 1321]. But, using λmax values of dyes, there are very few reported QSPR models. Some of them are mentioned here. Xu et al. developed a QSPR model correlating the experimental absorption maxima (λmax) values of 70 organic dyes using 3D molecular descriptors calculated from Dragon [11] software. Venkatraman and colleagues [12] used a supervised machine learning approach for developing a non-linear model for absorption data of 1861 metal-free dyes. Quashie Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes  213 [13] used DFT to study the electronic structure and molecular orbital data of the carbazole dyes. Xu et al. [14] performed a quantitative structureproperty relation- ship study between descriptors representing the molecular structures and the λmax of organic dyes; those descriptors were then used for development of the artiﬁcial neural networks (ANN). The present study reports a QSPR model correlating the absorp- tion maxima (λmax) values of carbazole dyes. Only easily computable 2D descriptors have been employed in the modeling, as they give deﬁnite physicochemical meaning and easy interpretation of the derived models. Model validation was carried out using internationally acceptable validation metrics. The applicability domain study was performed to check whether any of the test set molecules are situated outside the chemical region space of the training set molecules. To the best of our knowledge, this is the ﬁrst QSPR report of carbazole class of dyes using λmax values. 2 Materials and Methods 2.1 Dataset Preparation The absorption maxima values used for modeling of 85 carbazole dyes were collected from the Dye-Sensitized Solar Cell Database (DSSCDB) (https://www.dyedb.com/) [13, 22]. This is a large database consisting of around 4,000 entries for various chemical classes of dyes used for DSSCs. After initial analysis, the mixtures of dyes were discarded from the database. After that, the remaining classes of dyes were screened based upon the solar simulator (AM 1.5G 100 mW/cm2) and TiO2 electrode. Next, we have separated the database based on chemical classes of dyes. In this study, we have used only carbazole derivatives having deﬁned absorption maxima (λmax) values for modeling. We have removed one compound as an outlier due to high residual value. So, we have used 84 compounds for the modeling purpose. The details of the dataset are provided in Table 1. In case of any biological QSPR, the response variable should be in the logarithmic scale; but in this case, endpoint (λmax) refers to the energy terms; so, the modeling procedure was carried without any logarithmic conversion of the response. 2.2 Structure Representation The chemical structures of carbazole dyes with proper aromatization with explicit hydrogens were carefully drawn manually using MarvinSketch tool [23] and saved in MDL.mol format, a recommended format for descriptor calculation. 214 J. Gopala Krishna et al. Table 1 Carbazole dye structures with observed and predicted absorption maxima (λmax) values Sl. No SMILES of the carbazole dyes Absorption maxima (λmax) Observed Predicted 1a N#C/C(=Cc1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(cc1)n1c2ccc (cc2c2c1ccc(c2)C(C)(C)C)C(C)(C)C)/C(=O)O 589 586.35 2a N#C/C(=C/c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(cc1)n1c2ccc (cc2c2c1ccc(c2)C(C)(C)C)C(C)(C)C)/C(=O)O 585 531.88 3 N#CC(=Cc1ccc(s1)c1ccc2c(c1) c1ccccc1n2c1ccc2c(c1)C(C)(C)c1c2cccc1)C(=O)O 528 530.40 4 N#CC(=Cc1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc2c(c1) c1ccccc1n2c1ccc2c(c1)C(C)(C)c1c2cccc1)C(=O)O 595 585.31 5 N#CC(=Cc1ccc(s1)c1ccc2c(c1)c1ccccc1n2c1ccc(cc1) C=C(c1ccccc1)c1ccccc1)C(=O)O 538 529.82 6 OC(=O)CN1C(=S)SC(=Cc2ccc(s2)c2ccc3c(c2) c2ccccc2n3c2ccc3c(c2)C(C)(C)c2c3cccc2)C1=O 619 556.17 7 OC(=O)CN1C(=S)SC(=Cc2ccc(s2)c2ccc(s2) c2ccc3c(c2)c2ccccc2n3c2ccc3c(c2)C(C)(C)c2c3cccc2)C1=O 600 610.87 8 N#CC(=Cc1ccc(s1)c1ccc(c2c1nsn2) c1ccc(cc1)n1c2ccccc2c2c1cccc2)C(=O)O 557 594.69 9 N#CC(=Cc1ccc(s1)c1ccc(c2c1nsn2) c1ccc2c(c1)c1ccccc1n2c1ccccc1)C(=O)O 589 593.82 10a CCCCC(Cn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1cccc2) c1ccc(c2c1nsn2)c1ccc(s1)C=C(C(=O)O)C#N)CC 628 596.44 11 CCCCC(COc1ccc(cc1)n1c2ccc(cc2c2c1cccc2) c1ccc(c2c1nsn2)c1ccc(s1)C=C(C(=O)O)C#N)CC 595 593.33 12 N#CC(=Cc1ccc(s1)c1ccc(c2c1nsn2) c1ccc2c(c1)n(c1ccccc1)c1c2cccc1)C(=O)O 560 539.93 13 CCCCC(COc1ccc(cc1)n1c2ccccc2c2c1cc(cc2) c1ccc(c2c1nsn2)c1ccc(s1)C=C(C(=O)O)C#N)CC 557 539.43 14 N#CC(=Cc1ccc(cc1) n1c2ccccc2c2c1cccc2)C(=O)O 527 506.51 15 N#CC(=Cc1ccc(cc1)C#Cc1ccc(cc1) n1c2ccccc2c2c1cccc2)C(=O)O 548 507.63 16 CCCCn1c2cc(ccc2c2c1cc(cc2)N (c1ccccc1)c1ccccc1)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N 579 586.24 17 N#CC(=Cc1ccc(s1)C#Cc1ccc(cc1) n1c2ccccc2c2c1cccc2)C(=O)O 555 585.24 18a CCCCn1c2cc(ccc2c2c1cc(cc2)N (c1ccccc1)c1ccccc1)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N 572 531.39 19 N#CC(=Cc1ccc2c(c1) c1ccccc1n2CC)C(=O)O 504 505.69 (continued) Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes  215 Table 1 (continued) Sl. No SMILES of the carbazole dyes Absorption maxima (λmax) Observed Predicted 20 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)C=C1SC(=S)N (C1=O)CC(=O)O)C=C1SC(=S)N(C1=O)CC(=O)O 521 546.80 21a N#CC(=Cc1ccc(cc1)c1ccc2c(c1) c1ccccc1n2c1ccc2c(c1)C(C)(C)c1c2cccc1)C(=O)O 495 506.88 22a CCCCCCN1c2ccc(cc2Sc2c1ccc(c2) C=C(C(=O)O)C#N)c1ccc(cc1)C=C(c1ccc(cc1) n1c2ccccc2c2c1cccc2)c1ccc(cc1)n1c2ccccc2c2c1cccc2 537 535.99 23a CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2) C=C(C(=O)O)C#N)c1ccc(cc1)C=C(c1ccc(cc1) n1c2ccccc2c2c1cccc2)c1ccc(cc1)n1c2ccccc2c2c1cccc2 551 561.13 24 CCCCCCCCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2) c1ccc(c2c1nsn2)c1ccc2c(c1) n(CCCCCCCCCCCC)c1c2cc(cc1)/C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N)/C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N 560 592.17 25a N#CC(=Cc1ccc(s1)c1ccc(c2c1nsn2) c1ccc2c(c1)c1ccccc1n2c1ccc2c(c1)C(C)(C) c1c2cccc1)C(=O)O 601 593.80 26 N#CC(=Cc1ccc(o1)c1ccc(c2c1nsn2) c1ccc2c(c1)c1ccccc1n2c1ccc2c(c1)C(C)(C)c1c2cccc1)C(=O)O 596 580.55 27 N#CC(=Cc1ccc(cc1)c1ccc(c2c1nsn2) c1ccc2c(c1)c1ccccc1n2c1ccc2c(c1)C(C)(C)c1c2cccc1)C(=O)O 565 570.30 28a N#CC(=Cc1ccc(o1)c1ccc2c(c1) c1ccccc1n2c1ccc2c(c1)C(C)(C)c1c2cccc1)C(=O)O 480 505.54 29a CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)/C=C(/c1ccc(cc1)c1ccc(cc1)/ C=C1/SC(=S)N(C1=O)CC(=O)O) C#N)C=C(c1ccc(cc1)c1ccc(cc1)/C=C/1SC(=S)N(C1=O)CC(=O)O)C#N 506 548.50 30 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)/ C=C(/c1ccc(cc1)c1ccc(cc1)/C=C(C(=O)O)/ C#N)C#N)C=C(c1ccc(cc1)c1ccc(cc1)/C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N)C#N 487 504.75 (continued) 216 J. Gopala Krishna et al. Table 1 (continued) Sl. No SMILES of the carbazole dyes Absorption maxima (λmax) Observed Predicted 31 CCCCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2) c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(/C(=O)O) C#N)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N 610 609.36 32 CCCCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2) c1ccc(s1)/C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N 559 553.50 33a CCCCCCCCC(n1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2) c1sc(cc1CCCCCC)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(C(=O)O)/ C#N)c1sc(cc1CCCCCC)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N)CCCCCCCC 610 611.16 34 CCCCCCCCC(n1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2) c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(/C(=O)O) C#N)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N)CCCCCCCC 617 611.25 35 CCCCCCCCC(n1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2) c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/ C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N)CCCCCCCC 582 610.30 36a CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)c1sc(cc1CCCCCC) c1ccc(s1)/C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N)c1sc(cc1CCCCCC)c1ccc(s1)/ C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N 600 610.09 37 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1) c1ccc(s1)/C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N)c1ccc(s1) c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N 606 610.17 38 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/ C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/ C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N 606 609.23 39 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1cccc2)c1ccc(cc1)/ C=C/1SC(=S)N(C1=O)CC(=O)O 550 505.50 40 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1cccc2)c1ccc(cc1)/ C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N 546 509.07 41 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1cccc2)/ C=C(c1ccc(s1)C=C1C(=O)NC(=O)NC1=O)/C#N 624 642.59 42a CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1cccc2)/ C=C(c1ccc(s1)/C=C1/SC(=S)N(C1=O)CC(=O)O)/C#N 640 610.92 43 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1cccc2)/ C=C(c1ccc(s1)/C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N)/C#N 630 585.31 (continued) Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes  217 Table 1 (continued) Sl. No SMILES of the carbazole dyes Absorption maxima (λmax) Observed Predicted 44 CCCCCCC(Cc1cc(sc1c1sc2c(c1)c1nonc1c1c2sc(c1) c1sc(cc1CC(CCCCCC)CCCC)c1ccc2c(c1)c1ccccc1n2CC)/ C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N)CCCC 702 646.00 45 CCCCOc1ccc(cc1)N(c1ccc2c(c1)n(CCCC) c1c2ccc(c1)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/ C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N)c1ccc(cc1)OCCCC 570 585.69 46 CCCCn1c2cc(ccc2c2c1cc(cc2)c1ccc(s1)/ C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N)N(c1ccc(cc1)OCCCC)c1ccc(cc1)OCCCC 565 530.83 47 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1cccc2) c1ccc(cc1)C=C1C(=O)NC(=S)NC1=O 618 566.73 48a CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1cccc2) c1ccc(cc1)C=C1C(=O)NC(=O)NC1=O 578 566.33 49 CCCCn1c2cc(ccc2c2c1cc(cc2)N(c1ccc(cc1) c1ccc2c(c1)C(CC)(CC)c1c2cccc1) c1ccc(cc1)c1ccc2c(c1)C(CC)(CC)c1c2cccc1)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N 575 585.88 50 CCCCn1c2cc(ccc2c2c1cc(cc2)N(c1ccc(cc1) c1ccc2c(c1)C(CC)(CC)c1c2cccc1)c1ccc(cc1) c1ccc2c(c1)C(CC)(CC)c1c2cccc1)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N 545 531.03 51 OC(=O)CCCCCCn1c2cc(ccc2c2c1cc(cc2) N(c1ccccc1)c1ccccc1)c1ccc(s1)c1cnccn1 477 456.71 52 CCCCn1c2cc(ccc2c2c1cc(cc2) N(c1ccccc1)c1ccccc1)c1ccc(s1)c1cnccn1 478 458.34 53 OC(=O)CCCCCCn1c2cc(ccc2c2c1cc(cc2) N(c1ccccc1)c1ccccc1)c1ccc(s1)c1ccncc1 467 457.02 54 OC(=O)CCCCCCn1c2cc(ccc2c2c1cc(cc2)c1ccncc1) N(c1ccccc1)c1ccccc1 425 456.88 55 CCCCn1c2cc(ccc2c2c1cc(cc2) N(c1ccccc1)c1ccccc1)c1ccc(s1)c1ccncc1 464 458.66 56a c1ccc(cc1)N(c1ccc2c(c1)[nH]c1c2ccc(c1) c1ccc(s1)c1ccncc1)c1ccccc1 465 456.10 57 CCCCn1c2cc(ccc2c2c1cc(cc2)c1ccncc1) N(c1ccccc1)c1ccccc1 423 458.51 58a c1ccc(cc1)N(c1ccc2c(c1)[nH]c1c2ccc(c1) c1ccncc1)c1ccccc1 423 455.96 59 CCCCn1c2cc(ccc2c2c1cc(cc2) N(c1ccccc1)c1ccccc1)c1ccc(cc1)C(=O)O 442 456.81 (continued) 218 J. Gopala Krishna et al. Table 1 (continued) Sl. No SMILES of the carbazole dyes Absorption maxima (λmax) Observed Predicted 60 OC(=O)c1ccc(cc1)c1ccc2c(c1)[nH]c1c2ccc(c1) N(c1ccccc1)c1ccccc1 438 454.26 61 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)N(c1ccc(cc1) c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(/C(=O)O) C#N)c1ccc(cc1)OCCCCCC)N(c1ccc(cc1) c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N)c1ccc(cc1)OCCCCCC 647 652.26 62 N#C/C(=Cc1ccc2c(n1)ccc(c2)n1c2ccc (cc2c2c1ccc(c2)OC)OC)/C(=O)O 550 557.05 63 CCCCCCCCn1c2ccccc2c2c1ccc1c2c2c3cc(ccc3n(c2cc1) CCCCCCCC)/C=C(/C(=O)O)C#N 556 550.62 64 N#CC(=Cc1ccc(cc1)C#Cc1ccc2c(c1)n (c1ccc(cc1)C(F)(F)F)c1c2ccc(c1) n1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)C(C)(C)C)C(C)(C)C)C(=O)O 524 525.64 65a N#CC(=Cc1ccc(cc1)C#Cc1ccc2c(c1) n(c1ccc(cc1)C(F)(F)F)c1c2ccc(c1) C#Cc1ccc(cc1)n1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)C(C)(C)C)C(C)(C)C)C(=O)O 545 526.47 66 N#CC(=Cc1ccc(cc1)C#Cc1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1) C#Cc1ccc(cc1)n1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)C(C)(C)C)C(C)(C)C)C(=O)O 540 562.59 67 N#C/C(=Cc1ccc2c(c1)c1c(n2C) ccc2c1c1c3ccccc3n(c1cc2)C)/C(=O)O 561 546.06 68 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)/ C=C(/c1ccc(s1)C=C(C(=O)O)C(=O)O)C#N)/ C=C(/c1ccc(s1)C=C(C(=O)O)C(=O)O)C#N 661 657.30 69 CCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2) c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(cc1)C(=O)O)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(cc1)C(=O)O 461 457.00 70a CCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2) c1ccc(s1)c1ccncc1)c1ccc(s1)c1ccncc1 448 459.15 71 CCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(c(c1)O)O)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(c(c1)O)O 412 480.49 72 CCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2) c1ccc(s1)c1ccncc1)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(cc1)C(=O)O 464 458.07 73 CCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2) c1ccc(s1)c1ccncc1)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(c(c1)O)O 465 469.82 74a N#C/C(=C/c1ccc(s1)c1scc(n1) c1ccc(cc1)n1c2ccccc2c2c1cccc2)/C(=O)O 565 585.48 (continued) Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes  219 Table 1 (continued) Sl. No SMILES of the carbazole dyes Absorption maxima (λmax) Observed Predicted 75 N#C/C(=C/c1ccc(s1)c1scc(n1) c1ccc(cc1)c1ccc2c(c1)n(c1ccccc1)c1c2cccc1)/C(=O)O 569 585.50 76 CCCCn1c2ccccc2c2c1cc(cc2)c1ccc(cc1) c1csc(n1)c1ccc(s1)/C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N 568 587.47 77a CCCCCCOc1ccc(cc1)c1ccc2c(c1) c1cc(ccc1n2c1ccc(cc1)c1ccc(s1)c1ccc(s1)C=C(C(=O)O)C#N)c1ccc(cc1)OCCCCCC 570 584.48 78 CCCCCCOc1ccc(cc1)c1ccc2c(c1) c1cc(ccc1n2c1ccc2c(c1)C(C)(C)c1c2sc(c1)c1ccc(s1)C=C(C(=O)O)C#N)c1ccc(cc1)OCCCCCC 570 584.78 79 CCCCCCOc1cc(OCCCCCC)ccc1c1ccc2c(c1) c1cc(ccc1n2c1ccc2c(c1)C(C)(C)c1c2sc(c1) c1ccc(s1)C=C(C(=O)O)C#N)c1ccc(cc1OCCCCCC)OCCCCCC 620 641.24 80 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)c1ccc(o1)/ C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N)c1ccc(o1)C=C(C(=O)O)C#N 486 503.63 81 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)c1ccc(s1)/ C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N)c1ccc(s1)C=C(C(=O)O)C#N 502 553.36 82 CCCCCCn1c2ccc(cc2c2c1ccc(c2)c1ccc(cc1)/ C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N)c1ccc(cc1)C=C(C(=O)O)C#N 494 506.31 83a CCCCCCc1cc(sc1c1ccc(cc1)N(c1ccc2c(c1) c1ccccc1n2c1ccccc1)c1ccc2c(c1)c1ccccc1n2c1ccccc1)c1sc(cc1CCCCCC)/C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N 714 656.12 84 CCCCCCc1cc(sc1c1ccc(cc1)N(c1ccc2c(c1) c1ccccc1n2c1ccccc1)c1ccc2c(c1)c1ccccc1n2c1ccccc1)/C=C(C(=O)O)/C#N 641 601.36 aTest set compounds 220 J. Gopala Krishna et al. 2.3 Descriptor Calculation and Dataset Division After drawing the chemical structures, we have calculated the descriptors using the Dragon software and PaDEL-descriptor software. To prevent the difﬁculty in interpretation of the ﬁnal model, we have calculated only selected classes of 2D- descriptors with deﬁnite physicochemical meaning such as ring descriptors, connec- tivity indices, atom type E-state indices, constitutional indices, functional group counts, 2D atom pairs, atom-centered fragment, and molecular property descriptors using DRAGON (Version 7) software [24, 25]. Only extended topochemical atom (ETA) class of descriptors were calculated using PaDEL-Descriptor (Version 2.20) software [26]. From the initial pool of descriptors, we have removed the redundant, constant, intercorrelated descriptors (0.9). After removing intercorrelated descrip- tors, the initial pool of descriptors was further reduced to a manageable number of descriptors using multilayered stepwise regression method [27]. The reduced pool of descriptors was used for model development purposes. The main aim of the present work was to develop a robust and signiﬁcant QSPR model using the absorption maxima (λmax) values of carbazole dyes for a precise and reliable prediction of absorption maxima values. To develop statistically robust QSPR model for absorp- tion maxima values, we have divided the dataset into training set (used explicitly for model generation) and a test set (for model validation) in approximately 75:25 ratio [21] using k-Medoids dataset-division (ver. 1.2) tool (available at https://dtclab. webs.com/software-tools). However, in the present work, we have developed statis- tically robust models for carbazole dyes. The ﬁnal model was obtained by using 63 compounds in the training set (ntraining) and 21 molecules in the test set (ntest). 2.4 Model Development and Validation Prior to the development of the ﬁnal model, we have used stepwise regression in a multilayered fashion for the selection of features. To run the stepwise regression [27, 28], we have used the stepping criteria (Fischer criteria) with deﬁnite threshold value of F = 4.0 for inclusion and F = 3.9 for exclusion [13, 28]. The process was repeated many times (after deleting modeled descriptors appearing in the previous runs) in order to extract the important descriptors. Finally, a set of 33 descriptors was extracted at the end of stepwise analysis and subjected to run best subset selection. The best model was subjected for PLS analysis in order to reduce noise from the developed model, as PLS regression computes latent variables (LVs) from the original variables and can also manage a lot of noisy descriptors. In case of PLS model development, the software internally performs input data scaling (standardization) followed by calculation of latent variables scores (the actual regressing variables), although the ﬁnal regression coefﬁcients are presented in terms of the original unscaled variables (similar to multiple linear regression or MLR equations). Unlike MLR models, the determination of standard errors (SE) of regression coefﬁcients for PLS models is Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes  221 not straightforward. However, the relative importance of different descriptors can be offered in terms of variable importance plot (VIP) [29]. The acceptability of the developed models was judged by using a number of internationally acceptable validation metrics, in terms of stability, robustness, ﬁtness, and predictivity. The determination coefﬁcient (R2), internal predictive metrics [30] like Q2LOO (leave-one-out cross-validated R2), and external predictivity metrics like R2pred or Q2ext (Q2F1) and Q2F2 were calculated for simple judgment of the errors encoun- tered during the prediction of a test set within the model domain [31]. In addition, rm2 parameters were calculated for both internal and external sets. This metric is calculated based on the correlations between the observed and predicted values with (r2) and without (r02) intercept for the least squares regression [32]. Model predic- tion error was evaluated by the statistical validation parameters of the model for the external set which should be within the response and chemical domain of the training set. Randomization of the model was executed to justify the robustness of developed PLS model. In this study, Y-randomization was conducted using SIMCA-P software. Randomization is a validation technique used in QSPR/QSAR models, whereby the performance of the original model in data description (r2) is compared with the models built with randomly shufﬂed response, based on the original descriptor pool and the original model building procedure. The methodology of model development is schematically summarized in Fig. 4. Fig. 4 Schematic representation of modeling of absorption maxima values against carbazole dyes 222 J. Gopala Krishna et al. 2.5 Applicability Domain Assessment The applicability domain is a speculative region in the chemical space surrounding the training set of the speciﬁc QSPR model, within which the predictions of the model are considered to be valid. In the development of the QSPR model, the AD of the molecules has a pivotal role to judge the variability in the predictions of a compound gleaned from how much similar it is to the compounds used to build the model. In this case, we have applied the DModX (distance to model in X-space) approach using SIMCA-P software [29] to check the AD of the developed model. In the DModX approach, the indicative values of X and Y residuals are used to conﬁrm the model quality. The standard deviation (SD) of the X-residuals of the corresponding row of the residual matrix E is relative to the distance between the data point and the model plane in X-space, often called DModX. A compound with a DModX value higher than 2.5 times the overall SD of the X residual or threshold value is considered as an outlier in case of the training set and outside AD in case of the test set. 3 Results and Discussion Based on the λmax values of 84 dyes (carbazole chemical class), we have developed a robust and reliable PLS model using only 2D descriptors. Prior to the development of the ﬁnal model, we have employed variable selection strategy [27, 3336] using multilayered stepwise regression from a large pool of descriptors to reduce noise in the input. The statistical quality of the PLS model was determined by utilizing inter- nationally accepted various internal and external validation metrics. The reported PLS model was developed by using 7 descriptors with one latent variable. Here, ntraining and ntest are the number of compounds present in the training and test sets. The R2 (0.865), Q2 (0.792), R2pred (0.849), and Q2F2 (0.846) values of the PLS model were higher than 0.6 (as depicted in model 1), which indicated the acceptability and predictive ability of models. Therefore, based on the statistical results obtained from the PLS model (see in Table 2), it can be conﬁrmed that the model is acceptable in terms of ﬁtness, stability, and classical predictivity measures. The descriptors appearing in the model recognize the structural and functional requirements, which are essential to regulate the λmax values of carbazole dyes. The proximity of the observed and predicted values for λmax in the dataset can be further established from the scatter plot as shown in Fig. 5. To check the applicability domain (AD) of the test set dyes, we have used DModX approach. Based on the results, it has been found that compounds 23 and 42 are present outside the applicability domain (Fig. 6). Addition- ally, we have also performed Y-randomization test to check whether the model was obtained by any chance or not. The results (R2intercept = 0.00943 and Q2intercept = 0.149) obtained from the randomized models conﬁrmed that the developed model was not obtained by any chance correlation (Fig. 7). We have discussed brieﬂy all the contributing descriptors appearing in the model in this section. The signiﬁcance Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes  223 Table 2 Statistical quality and validation parameters of the ﬁnal PLS models developed using the absorption maxima (λmax) values of carbazole dyes Model type Descriptors R2 Ra2 Q2 LV r2 m(LOO) r2 m(LOO) s PRESS R2pred Q2F2 r2 m(test) r2 m(test) CCC PLS B08[NS], B04[NO], F05[OS], SaaaC, B04[OO], B04[SS], F05[NN] 0.865 0.847 0.792 1 0.729 0.097 202.65 51898.5 0.849 0.846 0.711 0.133 0.906 224 J. Gopala Krishna et al. Fig. 5 Scatter plot of the observed and the predicted λmax values of the developed PLS model Fig. 6 Applicability domain of the test set compounds Fig. 7 Importance of the model variables based on VIP plot Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes  225 Fig. 8 Randomization plot of the PLS model level of the modeled descriptors toward the λmax values was computed based on the variable importance plot (VIP) (Fig. 8) [29]. The VIP deﬁnes the importance of each parameter obtained from the ﬁnal PLS model that is responsible for regulating the λmax values. As per the VIP plot, the signiﬁcance level of the modeled descriptors are in the following manner: B08[NS], B04[NO], F05[OS], F05[NN], B04[OO], SaaaC, and B04[SS]. Here, all these descriptors appearing in the model contribute positivelytowardtheλmax valuesasindicatedbytheirpositiveregressioncoefﬁcients. Model 1 λmax = 428.731 + 53.948  B08[N-S] + 53.301  B04[N-O] + 11.875  F05[O-S] + 21.999  F05[N-N] + 57.462  B04[O-O] + 5.765  SaaaC + 41.122  B04[S-S] ntraining = 63, R2 = 0.865, R2 (adj) = 0.847, Q2 = 0.792, S = 202.65, PRESS = 51898.5, F = 309.67(1, 62)  r2 m(LOO)= 0.729, r2 m(Loo) = 0.097, LV = 1, ntest = 21, Q2 F1 = 0.849, Q2 F2 = 0.846,  r2 m(test)= 0.711, r2 m(test) = 0.133, CCC = 0.906 The most signiﬁcant descriptor, B08[NS], a 2D-atom pair descriptor, denotes the presence or absence of N and S atoms at the topological distance of 8. The positive contribution of this variable suggested that the presence of this fragment may enhance the absorption maxima values of carbazole dyes as evidenced by compounds 44, 61, and 68 (λmax values of these compounds are 702, 647, and 661, respectively) and vice versa in case of compounds 54, 57, and 71 (λmax values of these compounds are 226 J. Gopala Krishna et al. Fig. 9 Contribution of B08[NS] and B04[NO] descriptors toward the λmax values 425, 423, and 412, respectively). The presence of N and S atoms at the topological distance 8 increases the photo-excitation by enhancing the localized ππ* transition of the dye [13]. The contribution of this descriptor toward the λmax values is depicted in Fig. 9. The next signiﬁcant descriptor, B04[NO], another 2D atom pair descriptor, is deﬁned as the presence or absence of N and O atoms at the topological distance of 4. This descriptor also contributes positively toward the λmax value as evident from the carbazole dyes 41 (B04[NO] = 1; λmax = 624), 43 (B04[NO] = 1; λmax = 630) and 44 (B04[NO] = 1; λmax = 702). On the other hand, dyes like 59 (B04[NO] = 0; λmax = 442), 69 (B04[NO] = 0; λmax = 461), and 72 (B04[NO] = 0; λmax = 464) have low λmax values. This parameter signiﬁes the distance between the N and the O atoms which is referred to a strong cyano acceptor and a chelating anchoring mode of the carboxylation, which play a vital role to alter the absorption maxima values of dyes [13]. Thus, the presence of strong acceptor and chelating anchors [37, 38] in the dyes results in to higher λmax values. The contribution of this descriptor toward the λmax values is depicted in Fig. 9. The positive regression coefﬁcient of the next important descriptor, F05[OS] (frequency of O and S atoms at the topological distance 5), another 2D atom pair descriptor, suggested that higher frequency of these two atoms at the topological distance 5 in the carbazole dyes shifts the absorption maxima toward longer wave- length [39]. This observation was evidenced by dyes 6 (F05[OS] = 5; λmax = 619), 44 (F05[OS] = 4; λmax = 702), and 68 F05[OS] = 8; λmax = 661). On the contrary, absence or less number of this fragments in the dyes may shift the absorption maxima toward shorter wavelength as evidenced by the dyes like 54 (F05[OS] = 0; λmax = Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes  227 425), 57 (F05[OS] = 0; λmax = 423), and 60 (F05[OS] = 0; λmax = 438). The presence of O and S atoms in the dye system may delocalize the electron density which is necessary for the π-bond conjugation. Thus, the molar extinction coefﬁ- cient of the dyes increases which leads to the bathochromic shift of the absorption spectrum [13]. The contribution of this descriptor toward the λmax values is depicted in Fig. 10. The fourth highest signiﬁcant descriptor, F05[NN], another 2D atom pair descriptor, is deﬁned as the frequency of two N atoms at the topological distance 5. This descriptor also contributes positively toward the absorption maxima as indicated by its positive regression coefﬁcient. Therefore, higher frequency of this atom at the topological distance 5 may shift the absorption maxima value to the longer wave- length as evidenced by dyes 128 (F05[NN] = 2; λmax = 647) and 179 (F05[NN] = 2; λmax = 641) and vice versa in case of dyes like 120 (F05[NN] = 0; λmax = 425) and 123 (F05[NN] = 0; λmax = 423). The contribution of this descriptor toward the λmax values is depicted in Fig. 10. Another 2D atom pair descriptor B04[OO] denotes the presence or absence of two O atoms at the topological distance of 4, which contributes positively toward the λmax values. We have found that in case of dyes 41 (B04[OO] = 1; λmax = 624), 47 (B04[OO] = 1; λmax = 618), and 68 (B04[OO] = 1; λmax = 661), the absorption maxima values are high due to the presence of two O atoms at the topological distance 4. In contrary, the reverse is observed in case of dyes 54 (B04[OO] = 0; λmax = 425), 59 (B04[OO] = 0; λmax = 442), and 60 (B04[OO] = 0; λmax = 438). This parameter denotes the oxygen in the enamine of the carbazole moiety and the anchoring functional groups (such as carboxylate, alkoxysilanes, etc.) which may Fig. 10 Contribution of F05[OS] and F05[NN] descriptors toward the λmax values 228 J. Gopala Krishna et al. Fig. 11 Contribution of B04[OO] and SaaaC descriptors toward the λmax values make stronger ππ interactions of the dye system to shift the λmax values to a longer wavelength [13, 40]. The contribution of this descriptor toward the λmax values is depicted in Fig. 11. The atom-centered fragment descriptor, SaaaC, represents the sum of carbons connected with three aromatic bonds. The positive regression coefﬁcient of this descriptor suggests that the presence of this fragment shifts the absorption maxima to a longer wavelength as evidenced by the dyes 44 and 84 (λmax values of these compounds are 720 and 641, respectively, and their corresponding descriptor values are 11.192 and 9.294) and absence of this fragment shifts the absorption maxima to a shorter wavelength as evidenced by dyes 30, 60, and 80 (λmax values of these compounds are 487, 438, and 486, respectively, and their corresponding descriptor values are 4.288, 4.428, and 4.094). The presence of the aromatic groups in the structure increases conjugation, which implies enhanced absorption maxima (λmax) of the carbazole dye molecules [41, 42]. The contribution of this descriptor toward the λmax values is depicted in Fig. 11. The least signiﬁcant descriptor, B04[SS], a 2D atom pair descriptor, is deﬁned as the presence or absence of two S atoms at the topological distance 4. This descriptor also contributes positively. Therefore, the presence of two S atoms at the topological distance 4 in carbazole dye molecules may shift the absorption maxima to a longer wavelength (e.g., dyes 6 (λmax = 619) and 7 (λmax = 600)) and absence of this fragment may shift the absorption maxima to a shorter wavelength [43] (e.g., dyes 19 (λmax = 504) and 30 (λmax = 487)). The contribution of this descriptor toward the λmax values is depicted in Fig. 12. Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes  229 Fig. 12 Contribution of B04[SS] descriptor toward the λmax values 4 Conclusion In this chapter, we have reported a statistically sound PLS regression-based chemo- metric model based on only 2D descriptors to predict the λmax values of a set of sensitizing carbazole dyes used in DSSCs. As the quantum and electrochemical analyses for a large number of dyes are time consuming, we have explored only the 2D structural features [25] in the present chapter. Most of the parameters appearing in the model are simple interpretable 2D atom pair descriptors. From the model descriptors, we have concluded that (Fig. 13): (i) the presence of N and S atoms at Fig. 13 The insights were obtained from the developed PLS model 230 J. Gopala Krishna et al. the topological distance of 8 increases the photo-excitation by enhancing the local- ized ππ* transition of the dye; (ii) the presence of N and O atoms at the topological distance of 4 may lead to a strong cyano acceptor and a chelating anchoring mode of the carboxylation which play an important role to alter the absorption maxima values of dyes; (iii) the frequency of O and S atoms at the topological distance of 5 should be higher in the dye system for the π-bond conjugation thus shifting the λmax values to a longer wavelength; (iv) the frequency of two N atoms at the topo- logical distance of 5 should be more for higher λmax values; (v) the presence of two O atoms at the topological distance of 4 in the dye system may strengthen the ππ interactions of the dye system thus shifting the λmax values to a longer wavelength; (vi) the presence of an aromatic system in the dye molecules is favorable for π-bond conjugation thus shifting the λmax values to a longer wavelength; (vii) the presence of two S atoms at the topological distance of 4 may also shift the λmax values to the longer wavelength. The absorption maxima have a great impact on the selection of DSSCs as they inﬂuence the value of optical bandgap, HOMO-LUMO distance. In DSSCs, a dye is the key element to absorb the photon from solar energy. The general estimation reveals that for most of the dye molecules, the absorption range falls in the visible spectrum (in principle, the radiation down in the near IR can be exploited, and maximum photon ﬂux occurs in the visible range). It is important to select the dyes whose absorption maxima lie in the visible range. Therefore, the interpreted features from the QSPR model should be useful in the design and development of new carbazole sensitizers with predicted λmax values for their use in DSSCs. Acknowledgements JGK thanks the Department of Pharmaceuticals, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers, Govt. of India for a fellowship. KR thanks SERB, Govt of India for ﬁnancial assistance under the MATRICS scheme (MTR/2019/000008). References 1. KarthickSN,HemalathaKV,BalasingamSK,ManikClintonF,AkshayaS,KimHJ(2019)Dye- sensitized solar cells: history, components, conﬁguration, and working principle. Interfacial Eng Funct Mater Dye-Sensit Solar Cells 5:16 2. Honrubia-Escribano A, Ramirez FJ, Gómez-Lázaro E, Garcia-Villaverde PM, Ruiz-Ortega MJ, Parra-Requena G (2018) Inﬂuence of solar technology in the economic performance of PV power plants in Europe. A comprehensive analysis. Renew Sustain Energy Rev 1(82):488501 3. Chopra KL, Paulson PD, Dutta V (2004) Thin-ﬁlm solar cells: an overview. Prog Photovolt Res Appl 12(23):6992 4. Yan J, Saunders BR (2014) Third-generation solar cells: a review and comparison of polymer: fullerene, hybrid polymer and perovskite solar cells. Rsc Adv 4(82):4328643314 5. Bauer C, Boschloo G, Mukhtar E, Hagfeldt A (2002) Interfacial electron-transfer dynamics in Ru(tcterpy)(NCS) 3-sensitized TiO2 nanocrystalline solar cells. J Phys Chem 106:12693 12704 6. Zhang L, Cole JM (2015) Anchoring groups for dye-sensitized solar cells 7. Jasim K (2012) Natural dye sensitized solar cell based on nanocrystalline TiO2. Sains Malays 41:10116 Chemometric Modeling of Absorption Maxima of Carbazole Dyes  231 8. Luo JS, Wan ZQ, Jia CY (2016) Recent advances in phenothiazine-based dyes for dye sensitized solar cells. Chin Chem Lett 27:13041318 9. Nazeeruddin MK, Kay A, Rodicio I, Humphry-Baker R, Mueller E, Liska P, Vlachopoulos N, Grätzel M (1993) J Am Chem Soc 115:6382 10. Nazeeruddin MK, Zakeeruddin SM, Humphry-Baker R, Jirousek M, Liska P, Vlachopoulos N, Shklover V, Fischer C-H, Gratzel M (1999) Inorg Chem 38:6298 11. Roy JK, Kar S, Leszczynski J (2019) Optoelectronic properties of C60 and C70 fullerene derivatives: designing and evaluating novel candidates for efﬁcient P3HT polymer solar cells. Materials (Basel) 12:2282 12. Dearden JC (2016) The history and development of quantitative structure-activity relationships (QSARs). Int J Quant Struct Prop Relatsh 1(1):144. https://doi.org/10.4018/IJQSPR.201601 0101 13. Krishna JG, Ojha PK, Kar S, Roy K, Leszczynski J (2020) Chemometric modeling of power conversion efﬁciency of organic dyes in dye sensitized solar cells for the future renewable energy. Nano Energy 1(70):104537 14. Roy JK, Kar S, Leszczynski J (2020) Revealing the photophysical mechanism of N, N- diphenyl-aniline based Sensitizers with DDa framework: theoretical insights. ACS Sustain Chem Eng 15. Kar S, Sizochenko N, Ahmed L, Batista VS, Leszczynski J (2016) Quantitative structure- property relationship model leading to virtual screening of fullerene derivatives: exploring structural attributes critical for photoconversion efﬁciency of polymer solar cell acceptors. Nano Energy 26:677691 16. Venkatraman V, Alsberg BK (2015) A quantitative structure-property relationship study of the photovoltaic performance of phenothiazine dyes. Dyes Pigments 114:6977 17. Venkatraman V, Foscato M, Jensen VR, Alsberg BK (2015) Evolutionary de novo design of phenothiazine derivatives for dye-sensitized solar cells. J Mater Chem A 3:98519860 18. Li H, Zhong Z, Li L, Gao R, Cui J, Gao T, Hu LH, Lu Y, Su ZM, Li H (2015) A cascaded QSAR model for efﬁcient prediction of overall power conversion efﬁciency of all-organic dye-sensitized solar cells. J Comput Chem 36:10361046 19. Kar S, Roy JK, Leszczynska D, Leszczynski J (2017) Power conversion efﬁciency of arylamine organic dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) explicit to cobalt electrolyte: understanding the structural attributes using a direct QSPR approach. Computation 5:2 20. Roy JK, Kar S, Leszczynski J (2019) Electronic structure and optical properties of designed photo-efﬁcient indoline-based dye-sensitizers with D-A-π-A framework. J Phys Chem C 123:6 21. Roy JK, Kar S, Leszczynski J (2018) Insight into the optoelectronic properties of designed solar cells efﬁcient tetrahydroquinoline dye-sensitizers on TiO2(101) surface: ﬁrst principles approach. Sci Rep 8:10997 22. Venkatraman V, Raju R, Oikonomopoulos SP, Alsberg BK (2018) The dye-sensitized solar cell database. J Cheminform 10(1):18 23. MarvinSketch software. https://www.chemaxon.com 24. Dragon Version 7, 2016. https://www.talete.mi.it/index.htm 25. Mauri A, Consonni V, Pavan M, Todeschini R (2006) Dragon software: an easy approach to molecular descriptor calculations 56:237248 26. Yap CW (2011) PaDEL-descriptor: an open source software to calculate molecular descriptors and ﬁngerprints. J Comput Chem 32:14661474 27. Das S, Ojha PK, Roy K (2017) Multilayered variable selection in QSPR: a case study of modeling melting point of bromide ionic liquids No Title. Int J Quant Struct Relat 2:106124 28. https://www.minitab.com/en-us/products/minitab/ 29. SIMCA-P, UMETRICS, Sweden (2002). https://umetrics.com/ 30. Roy K (2018) Quantitative structure-activity relationships (QSARs): a few validation methods and software tools developed at the DTC laboratory. J Indian Chem Soc 95:14971502 31. Roy K, Mitra I (2011) On various metrics used for validation of predictive QSAR models with applications in virtual screening and focused library design. Comb Chem High Throughput Screen 14:450474 232 J. Gopala Krishna et al. 32. Roy K, Mitra I, Ojha PK, Kar S, Das RN, Kabir H (2012) Introduction of r m2(rank) metric incorporating rank-order predictions as an additional tool for validation of QSAR/QSPR models. Chemometr Intell Lab Syst 118:200210 33. Ojha PK, Roy K (2011) Comparative QSARs for antimalarial endochins: importance of descriptor-thinning and noise reduction prior to feature selection. Chemometr Intell Lab Syst 109:146161 34. Khan K, Benfenati E, Roy K (2019) Consensus QSAR modeling of toxicity of pharmaceuticals todifferentaquaticorganisms:rankingandprioritizationoftheDrugBankdatabasecompounds. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf 168:287297 35. Roy J, Ghosh S, Ojha PK, Roy K (2019) Predictive quantitative structure-property relationship (QSPR) modeling for adsorption of organic pollutants by carbon nanotubes (CNTs). Environ Sci Nano 6:224247 36. Ghosh S, Ojha PK, Roy K (2019) Exploring QSPR modeling for adsorption of hazardous synthetic organic chemicals (SOCs) by SWCNTs. Chemosphere 545555 37. Koumura N, Wang ZS, Mori S, Miyashita M, Suzuki E, Hara K (2006) Alkyl functionalized organic dyes for efﬁcient molecular photovoltaics. J Am Chem Soc 128:1425614257 38. Fischer MKR, Wenger S, Wang M, Mishra A, Zakeeruddin SM, Gratzel M, Baurle P (2010) D-π-A sensitizers for dye-sensitized solar cells: linear vs branched oligothiophenes. Chem Mater 22:18361845 39. Yao Z, Zhang M, Wu H, Yang L, Li R, Wang P (2015) Donor/acceptor indenoperylene dye for highly efﬁcient organic. Dye-Sens Solar Cells 137:37993802 40. Xu M, Wenger S, Bala H, Shi D, Li R, Zhou Y, Zakeeruddin SM, Gratzel M, Wang P (2009) Tuning the energy level of organic sensitizers for high-performance dye sensitized solar cells. J Phys Chem C 113:29662973 41. Verbitskiy EV, Cheprakova EM, Subbotina JO, Schepochkin AV, Slepukhin PA, Rusinov GL, Charushin VN, Chupakhin ON, Makarova NI, Metelitsa AV, Minkin VI (2014) Synthesis, spectral and electrochemical properties of pyrimidine-containing dyes as photosensitizers for dye-sensitized solar cells. Dyes Pigments 100:201202 42. Yang Z, Shao C, Cao D (2015) Screening donor groups of organic dyes for dye-sensitized solar cells. RSC Adv 5:2289232289 43. Zhu K, Neale NR, Miedaner A, Frank AJ (2007) Enhanced charge-collection efﬁciencies and light scattering in dye-sensitized solar cells using oriented TiO2 nanotubes arrays. Nano Lett 7:6974 Index 2 2D descriptors, 172, 207, 213, 220, 222, 225227, 229 A Absorption spectroscopy, 141, 143, 144, 147 Amsterdam Density Functional (ADF), 64 Applicability domain, 170, 173, 213, 222, 224 Artiﬁcial neural networks, 179, 213 Arylamine organic dyes, 172, 173, 192 B Band gap, 93, 102, 106, 107, 112, 122, 136, 188, 199, 230 Basis set, 62, 99, 119, 121, 172, 173 Benzothiadiazole, 174, 194 BetheSalpeter equation, 99, 101, 105 Bulk-heterojunction, 57, 58, 177 C CH3NH3PbI3, 1, 2, 6, 911, 13, 1618, 21, 23, 24 Charge separation, 57, 5963, 67, 74, 75, 84, 188, 193 Charge transfer, 23, 59, 60, 62, 67, 73, 75, 88, 100, 117, 136, 143, 147, 174, 181, 187189, 193, 194, 199, 201, 202 Chemical vapor deposition, 9 Chemometric, 170, 181, 207, 229 CoMFA, 170, 171 Conduction band, 41, 42, 101, 106, 107, 113, 116, 132, 139, 144, 147, 181, 189, 191, 192, 194198, 209, 211 Coumarin, 108110, 139, 170, 171, 174, 175, 182 D D-π-A, 88, 91, 133, 148, 173, 188 DDπA, 194, 196, 200 Databases, 167, 169, 170, 181183, 213 Density functional theory, 57, 59, 99, 100, 106, 172, 187, 211 DFT-D3, 64, 76 DRAGON, 171, 172, 179, 181, 212, 220 DSSCDB, 182, 213 Dye-Sensitized Solar Cells (DSSCs), 2, 82, 91, 99102, 106, 108, 111, 114117, 119, 121, 127, 130141, 145, 146, 150152, 167170, 172174, 179, 181, 183, 184, 187192, 196, 200, 202, 207213, 229, 230 E Electronhole interactions, 100, 102, 105, 117 Electrostatic potential difference, 199 Excited state lifetime, 141, 147, 181, 200, 201 Excited State Oxidation Potential (ESOP), 100, 194, 195, 200 Exciton,58,74,100,101,106,110,121,122, 178, 181, 195 Excitonic, 99, 101, 102, 105, 110, 117119  Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021 J. K. Roy et al. (eds.), Development of Solar Cells, Challenges and Advances in Computational Chemistry and Physics 32, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-69445-6 233 234 Index F First-principles, 99, 121 Fossil fuels, 1, 57, 128, 129, 135, 187, 208 Fullerene, 5759, 61, 62, 101, 132, 168, 176178 G GA-MLR, 172 Greens function, 99, 101105, 116, 121 GSOP, 100, 194, 200 GW, 101107, 109, 110, 112117, 119122 H Heterojunction solar cells, 3336, 4244, 4750, 52 HOMO, 34, 41, 74, 100, 110, 112115, 142 144, 147, 173, 189, 195, 198, 201, 209, 211, 230 I Indoline, 173, 174, 182, 192194, 196198 In-silico, 188 Intramolecular Charge Transfer (ICT), 181, 188 J JSC, 48, 88, 140, 169171, 173, 189 JV characteristics, 37, 38, 40, 41 L Light soaking stability, 43, 44, 51 LUMO, 34, 36, 42, 74, 100, 112116, 139, 142, 144, 173, 178, 189, 192, 198, 209, 211 M Machine learning, 167, 169, 180, 181, 212 Marcus theory, 74, 194 Microwave irradiation deposition, 11 Moisture degradation, 18 Multijunction, 81, 8496 N NewnsAnderson, 115, 121, 198 O Open-circuit voltage, 37, 88, 115117, 169, 170, 174, 187, 195, 202 Organic Photovoltaic (OPV), 5761, 63, 71, 7376, 8183, 85, 92, 93, 95, 96, 182 P P3HT, 18, 5963, 6575, 177, 178 PCBM, 19, 24, 25, 5963, 6575, 178 PEDOT, 34, 36, 43, 44 Perovskite Solar Cells (PSC), 16, 819, 21 27, 8183, 91, 93, 95, 96, 131, 132, 167169, 176178, 181184, 208 Photocurrent, 13, 48, 51, 85, 86, 88, 9195, 101, 136, 169, 191 Photoelectrode, 132 Photoexcited, 99, 141, 202 Photoinduced charge-transfer, 102, 117 Photophysical, 83, 167, 168, 170, 173, 184, 187, 197, 198, 202 Photostability, 181, 192, 193, 200, 202 Photovoltage, 13, 84, 85, 88, 9196, 140, 141, 147 Photovoltaic effect, 1, 131, 208 Plasmon, 104, 107 Polypyridyl complexes, 135, 137, 138, 141, 143, 145, 146 Power Conversion Efﬁciency (PCE), 1, 2, 4 6, 819, 2127, 42, 43, 45, 46, 48, 51, 84, 88, 9196, 167, 187189, 192, 208, 210, 212 Pulsed laser deposition, 15, 23 Q QSAR, 168 QTAIM, 59, 64, 66, 67, 69, 73 Quantitative Structure-Property Relation- ship (QSPR), 167184, 188, 212, 213, 220222, 230 Quantum dot solar cells, 131, 136, 208 R Renewable energy, 1, 57, 128, 129, 135, 167, 168, 187, 208 Ruthenium, 91, 92, 95, 132, 135138, 141, 143, 145, 146, 168, 182, 188, 210 S Schottky, 34, 3638, 40, 41, 51 Shockley-Queisser, 81, 82, 84, 85, 91 Index 235 Silicon, 2, 3337, 39, 42, 43, 48, 49, 81, 82, 84, 95, 96, 131133, 168, 188, 208 Solar cell, 1, 2, 11, 15, 18, 21, 2325, 27, 3337, 3952, 58, 75, 8188, 91, 92, 9496, 100, 101, 122, 127, 131134, 136, 150, 167172, 176, 180184, 187, 188, 207213 Spiro-OMeTAD, 14, 19 T TDDFT, 59, 6264, 70, 74, 75, 99101, 105, 109, 121, 144, 148, 150, 174, 187, 189, 193195, 200202 Thermal vapor deposition, 10 TiO2, 1316, 2123, 50, 86, 88, 92, 101, 102, 106108, 112116, 119122, 130, 134139, 141145, 147149, 172, 174, 181, 189192, 194202, 208211, 213 Two-step sequential coating, 6 U UV-Vis, 57, 60, 61, 73, 75, 120, 130, 178 V Valence band, 107, 112, 113, 133 Vapor-assisted solution, 7, 8 Voc, 25, 33, 36, 3941, 48, 51, 88, 140, 141, 149, 169171, 173, 178, 181, 189