Vol. 2 July 2010 | NPG ASIA MATERIALS | www.natureasia.com/asia-materials 96 REVIEW ARTICLE NPG Asia Mater. 2(3) 96102 (2010) doi: 10.1038/asiamat.2010.82 I n 2008, the world annual production of photovoltaic (PV) cells reached more than 7.9 GWp (Wp, peak power under standard test conditions) [1], and the average annual growth rate in PV cell pro- duction over the last decade has been more than 40%. Yet the electrical power generated by all PV systems around the world has been estimated to be less than 0.1% of the total world electricity generation [1]. Nevertheless, the strong growth in PV cell production is expected to continue for many years. Crystalline silicon PV cells, with over 60 years of development, have the longest production history and now account for the largest share of production, comprising up to 90% of all the solar cells produced in 2008 [1]. Silicon is safe for the environment and one of the most abundant resources on Earth, representing 26% of crustal material. Th e abundance and safety of silicon as a resource grants the silicon solar cell a prominent position among all the various kinds of solar cells in the PV industry. World annual PV cell production of 100 GWp is expected to be achieved by around 2020, and the silicon PV cell is the most viable candidate to meet this demand from the point of view of suitability for large-volume production. Th e crystalline silicon PV cell is one of many silicon-based semicon- ductor devices. Th e PV cell is essentially a diode with a semiconductor structure (Figure 1), and in the early years of solar cell production, many technologies for crystalline silicon cells were proposed on the basis of silicon semiconductor devices. Th e synergy of technologies and equipment devel- oped for other silicon-based semiconductor devices, such as large-scale integrated circuits and the many diff erent kinds of silicon semiconductor applications, with those developed for PV cells supported progress in both fi elds. Process technologies such as photolithography helped to increase energy conversion effi ciency in solar cells, and mass-production technolo- gies such as wire-saw slicing of silicon ingots developed for the PV industry were also readily applicable to other silicon-based semiconductor devices. However, the value of a PV cell per unit area is much lower than that for other silicon-based semiconductor devices. Production technologies such as silver-paste screen printing and fi ring for contact formation are therefore needed to lower the cost and increase the volume of production for crystalline silicon solar cells. To achieve parity with existing mains grid electricity prices, known as grid parity, lower material and process costs are as important as higher solar cell effi ciencies. Th e realization Advances in crystalline silicon solar cell technology for industrial mass production Tatsuo Saga* Sharp Corporation, Japan Crystalline silicon photovoltaic (PV) cells are used in the largest quantity of all types of solar cells on the market, representing about 90% of the world total PV cell production in 2008. Crystalline silicon solar cells are also expected to have a primary role in the future PV market. This article reviews the current technologies used for the production and application of crystalline silicon PV cells. The highest energy conversion effi ciency reported so far for research crystalline silicon PV cells is 25%. Standard industrial cells, however, remain limited to 1518% with the exception of certain high-effi ciency cells capable of effi ciencies greater than 20%. High-effi ciency research PV cells have advantages in performance but are often unsuitable for low-cost production due to their complex structures and the lengthy manufacturing processes required for fabrication. Various technologies for mono- and polycrystalline PV cells are compared and discussed with respect to the corresponding material technologies, such as silicon ingot and wafer production. High energy conversion effi ciency and low processing cost can only be achieved simultaneously through the development of advanced production technologies and equipment, and some of the latest technologies that could lead to effi ciencies of greater than 25% and commercially viable production costs are reviewed. *Corresponding author: Email: saga.tatsuo@sharp.co.jp Sharp Corporation, 282-1 Hajikami, Katsuragi-shi, Nara 639-2198, Japan Monocrystalline silicon solar cell Polycrystalline silicon solar cell Back contact Textured surface Front contact Anti-reﬂection coating Back surface p+ ﬁeld p-Type silicon n+ Region Figure 1. Typical mono- and polycrystalline silicon solar cells (upper), and simpliﬁ ed cross-section of a commercial monocrystalline silicon solar cell (lower) ( 2010 Sharp).  2010 Tokyo Institute of Technology Advances in crystalline silicon solar cell technology for industrial mass production Vol. 2 July 2010 | NPG ASIA MATERIALS | www.natureasia.com/asia-materials 97 REVIEW ARTICLE of high-effi ciency solar cells with low process cost is currently the most important technical issue for solar cell manufacturers. Cutting the cost of producing expensive high-purity crystalline silicon substrates is one aspect of reducing the cost of silicon solar cell modules. Th is review covers the historical and recent technological advances in crystalline silicon solar cells from the perspective of industrial application. Features of standard crystalline-silicon PV cells and modules Crystalline silicon PV cells are the most popular solar cells on the market and also provide the highest energy conversion effi ciencies of all commercial solar cells and modules. Th e structure of typical com- mercial crystalline-silicon PV cells is shown in Figure 1. Standard cells are produced using one of two diff erent boron-doped p-type silicon substrates; monocrystalline and polycrystalline. Th e cells of each type are typically 125 mm (5 inches) or 156 mm (6 inches) square, respectively. Monocrystalline solar cells are produced from pseudo-square silicon wafer substrates cut from column ingots grown by the Czochralski (CZ) process (see Figure 2). Polycrystalline cells, on the other hand, are made from square silicon substrates cut from polycrystalline ingots grown in quartz crucibles. Th e front surface of the cell is covered with micrometer- sized pyramid structures (textured surface) to reduce refl ection loss of incident light. An anti-refl ection coating (ARC) of silicon nitride (SiNx) or titanium oxide (TiOx) is overlayed on the textured silicon surface to further reduce refl ection loss. Crystalline silicon solar cells have highly phosphorous-doped n+ (electron-producing) regions on the front surface of boron-doped p-type (electron-accepting) substrates to form pn junc- tions. Back-surface p+ fi eld (BSF) regions are formed on the back surface of the silicon substrate to suppress recombination of minority carriers (photogenerated electrons). Th e BSF regions are usually formed by fi ring screen-printed aluminum paste in a belt furnace. Th e carriers (electrons) generated in the silicon bulk and diff usion layers are collected by silver contacts (electrodes) formed on the front and back silicon surfaces. Th e front contact consists of gridlines connected by a busbar to form a comb- shaped structure. Th e back contact is usually a series of silver stripes connected to the front bus bar of the adjacent cell via soldered copper interconnects. Th e contacts are usually formed by fi ring of screen-printed silver paste at the same time as fi ring for formation of the BSF regions. Th e front contact is similarly formed using screen-printed silver paste applied on top of the ARC layer. Contact between the front electrode and the n+ region of the silicon substrate is achieved by fi ring such that the silver penetrates through the ARC layer. Th e screen-printed front silver contact prepared by fi ring to penetrate the ARC is one of the most important techniques for large-volume fabrication of modern standard crystalline silicon cells. Other techniques, such as using boron-doped BSF and nickelcopper plating contacts, are used by a small number of cell manufacturers. Th e effi ciencies of typical commercial crystal- line silicon solar cells with standard cell structures are in the range of 1618% for monocrystalline substrates and 1517% for polycrystalline substrates. Th e substrate thickness used in most standard crystalline cells is 160240 μm. Th e solar cells are assembled into modules by soldering and laminating to a front glass panel using ethylene vinyl acetate as an encapsulant. Th e energy conversion effi ciency of modules of standard solar cells is roughly 2% lower than the individual cell effi ciency, falling in the range of 1215%. Th e sequence of crystalline silicon solar cell production, from raw materials to modules, is shown in Figure 2. Th e value chain for crystal- line silicon solar cells and modules is longer than that for thin-fi lm solar cells. Th ere are generally three industries related to crystalline silicon solar cell and module production: metallurgical and chemical plants for raw material silicon production, monocrystalline and polycrystalline ingot fabrication and wafer fabrication by multi-wire saw, and solar cell and module production. Th e cost of PV production is roughly divided in half between solar cell module production and balance-of-system fabrication, which includes the inverter, cables and installation. Th e fabrication cost for solar cell modules includes the cost of the silicon substrate (50%), cell processing (20%) and module processing (30%). Th e cost share is therefore strongly aff ected by the market price for poly- silicon feedstock, and reducing the cost of the silicon substrate remains one of the most important issues in the PV industry. Th e industrial goal for PV power is to reduce the electricity genera- tion cost to the equivalent of that for commercial grid electricity. Th e energy conversion effi ciency of solar cells is another important issue because the effi ciency infl uences the entire value-chain cost of the PV system, from material production to system installation. Th e solar cell effi ciency is limited by the three loss mechanisms: photon losses due to surface refl ection, silicon bulk transmission and back contact absorption; minority carrier (electrons in the p region and holes in the n region) loss due to recombination in the silicon bulk and at the surface; and heating joule loss due to series resistance in the gridlines and busbars, at the interface between the contact and silicon, and in the silicon bulk and diff usion region. In the design of solar cells and processes, these losses are minimized without lowering the productivity of the solar cells. Th e electrical performance of a solar cell is determined by the short- circuit current (Isc), open-circuit voltage (Voc), current at the maximum power point (Imp), voltage at the maximum power point (Vmp), maximum power (Pmax), fi ll factor (FF) and energy conversion effi ciency (η). In research and development, short-circuit current density (Jsc) is also used. An air mass 1.5 (AM1.5) spectrum condition (1,000 W m2) is the standard test condition for terrestrial solar cells. Th e AM1.5 condition is defi ned as 1.5 times the spectral absorbance of Earths atmosphere; Silica Inverter CZ crystallization Monocrystalline type Polycrystalline type System Crucible Ingot block Slicing Slicing Wafer Wafer Cell Module Cell Module Silicon scrap High-purity silicon Low-purity silicon + Figure 2. Production process for typical commercial crystalline silicon solar cells ( 2010 Sharp)  2010 Tokyo Institute of Technology T. Saga 98 Vol. 2 July 2010 | NPG ASIA MATERIALS | www.natureasia.com/asia-materials in contrast, the spectral absorbance for space is zero (air mass zero, AM0). Th e solar energy under the AM1.5 condition is used as the input energy for calculation of solar cell effi ciency. Th e solar cell fi ll factor and effi ciency are calculated using the following equations. [ ] [ ] [ ] ; ( [ ] [ ] [ ]) 1,000[ ] [ ] [ ] 100 FF η [%] I V P P I V P A V W W A V Wm Cell area m W 2 2 max max max sc oc mp mp # # # # = = = - (1) Effi ciency improvements Historical development Bell Laboratory fabricated the fi rst crystalline silicon solar cells in 1953, achieving 4.5% effi ciency, followed in 1954 with devices with 6% effi - ciency [2,3]. In the ten years since the fi rst demonstration, the effi ciency of crystalline silicon cells was improved to around 15%, and were suffi ciently effi cient to be used as electrical power sources for spacecraft, special terres- trial applications such as lighthouses, and consumer products such as elec- tronic calculators. Th e improvements in research-cell effi ciencies achieved for various kinds of solar cells over the past 30 years are shown in Figure 3. Although crystalline silicon solar cell technologies are not yet as effi cient as cells based on single-junction GaAs and multi-junction concentrators, they currently provide a good compromise between effi ciency and cost. Th e basic cell structure used in current industrial crystalline solar cells, which includes features such as a lightly doped n+ layer (0.20.3 μm) for better blue-wavelength response, a BSF formed by a p/p+ low/high junction on the rear side of the cell, a random pyramid-structured light- trapping surface, and an ARC optimized with respect to the refractive index of the glue used to adhere it, were developed for space and terrestrial use in the 1970s. Th e effi ciency of monocrystalline cells for space use is in the range of 1416% under 1 sun AM0 test conditions, equivalent to 1517% at AM1.5. Th ese standard structures for crystalline silicon cells are still used in standard industrial crystalline cells, which off er effi ciencies in the range of 1417%. Th e key technologies needed to realize effi ciencies of higher than 20% were developed in the 1980s and 90s, and the latest high-effi ciency crystalline silicon cells possess most of these features (Table 1). Monocrystalline solar cells Representative examples of high-effi ciency monocrystalline silicon PV cells are the passivated emitter rear localized (PERL) cell, the heterojunc- tion with intrinsic thin layer (HIT) cell, and the back contact, back junction (BC-BJ) cell (Figure 4(a,b,c)). Th ese PV cells feature many of the technologies that provide high effi ciency in this type of PV cell. Th e PERL cell is a research PV cell with front and rear surface passivation layers, an inverted-pyramid light-trapping surface, a rear localized p+ layer (BSF), a double-layer ARC and p-type fl oat zone (FZ) monocrystalline silicon substrate. Th e bulk minority carrier lifetime in PERL cells is longer than 1 ms, and the best output parameters (Voc, Jsc, FF and η) achieved for this type of cell are 706 mV, 42.7 mA cm2, 0.828 and 25.0% for a 4 cm2 laboratory cell [4]. Th is cell approaches the limit of current technologies for the absorption of solar photons and the collection of carriers generated in the cell emitter and base. A PERL cell effi ciency of 24.7% was reported almost ten years ago, and the record of 25.0% reported by researchers from the University of New South Wales (UNSW) in 2009 was obtained after re-measurement of the same cell using newer measurement techniques. Th e PERL cell has remained the most effi cient type of monocrystalline- silicon PV cell for the past ten years [5], and has been the most popular laboratory structure of all the high-effi ciency crystalline silicon PV cells. However, the full PERL design is not easy to apply to low-cost industrial production because of the necessity for multiple photolithography steps, similar to semiconductor devices with complex structures. Expensive silicon PV cells for space applications have a similar structure to the PERL cell [6]. Th e PLUTO cell developed for industrial use by SunTech Power has a simpler passivated emitter solar cell (PESC) design, which was also developed at the UNSW in 1985 [7], and provides effi ciency of up to 19.2% in a 4 cm-square cell [8]. Th e PESC features front passivation, a selective emitter, and a plated front contact with fi ne gridlines. Th e best output parameters reported for the HIT cell, which was developed for industrial use, are 729 mV, 39.5 mA cm2, 0.800 and 23.0% (Voc, Jsc, FF and η) for a large 100.4 cm2 cell [9]. Th is cell has a unique heterojunction structure consisting of very thin, amorphous Multijunction concentrators Single-junction GaAs Three-junction Single crystal Concentrator Thin ﬁlm Two-junction Crystalline silicon cells Single crystal Polycrystalline Thin silicon ﬁlm Thin film technologies Cu(In,Ga)Se2 CdTe Amorphous Si:H (stabilized) Nano-, micro-, poly-Si Multijunction polycrystalline Emerging PV Dye-sensitized cells Organic cells Eﬃciency (%) University of Maine Boeing Boeing Boeing Boeing ARCO NREL Boeing Euro-CIS 2000 2005 2010 1995 1990 1985 1980 1975 NREL/ NREL (inverted, semi-mismatched) Spectrolab NREL NREL Koplin Japan Energy Spire North Carolina State University Varian RCA Solarex UNSW UNSW ARCO UNSW UNSW UNSW UNSW Spire Stanford Stanford (140conc.) Varian (216conc.) SunPower (96conc.) Amonix (96conc.) Westinghouse UNSW Georgia Tech Georgia Tech Sharp AstroPower NREL AstroPower Spectrolab NREL NREL NREL (CdTe/CIS) NREL Sharp (large area) NREL FhG-ISE FhG-ISE Masushita Monosolar Kodak Kodak AMETEK Photon Energy University South Florida NREL NREL Princeton Univ. Linz Univ. Linz NREL Konarka Univ. Linz Siemens Plextronics Groningen NREL Cu(In,Ga)Se2 (14x conc.) NREL United Solar United Solar Kaneka (2 μm on glass) Univ. Stutgart RCA RCA RCA RCA RCA RCA Boeing- Spectrolab Boeing- Spectrolab (metamorphic) Solarex 12 8 4 0 16 20 24 28 32 36 40 44 EPFL Sharp 40.7% 33.8% 27.6% 24.7% 20.3% 19.9% 16.5% 12.1% 11.1% 5.4% Figure 3. Best research solar cell eﬃ ciencies reported by NREL ( 2010 NREL) Table 1. Key technologies for high-efficiency crystalline silicon solar cells Minimizing photon loss Front textured surface of random pyramid or inverted pyramid structures to reduce surface refl ection loss Single- or double-layer ARC to reduce surface refl ection loss Back-contact cell structure to reduce front contact shadow loss Flat back surface by chemical etching of silicon to improve back refl ectivity and reduce photon absorption Back surface refl ector consisted of a dielectric layer and high-refl ectivity thin metal layer to reduce photon absorption Minimizing carrier loss Passivation of front electrode (partly in contact with highly doped silicon layer) to reduce carrier recombination under front electrode Shallow-doped pn junction with front surface dielectric passivation layer to reduce carrier recombination in the n+-doped region and at the surface; heterojunction with thin amorphous layers on a crystalline silicon base in a heterojunction cell; front surface fi eld and surface passivation for back contact in a back-junction cell Locally p+-doped back surface fi eld and point contact structure to reduce carrier recombination in highly doped p+ back region Back surface passivation by a dielectric layer or heterojunction structure to reduce back surface recombination Minimizing electrical loss Fine gridline front contact to reduce series resistance of n+-doped region Selective emitter (deep and highly doped emitter under the contact) to reduce contact resistance of front contact with silicon surface n-Type or p-type silicon substrates with minority carrier diff usion lengths longer than the base thickness  2010 Tokyo Institute of Technology Advances in crystalline silicon solar cell technology for industrial mass production Vol. 2 July 2010 | NPG ASIA MATERIALS | www.natureasia.com/asia-materials 99 REVIEW ARTICLE p- and n-doped layers and intrinsic amorphous layers on the front and rear surfaces of a CZ n-type monocrystalline-silicon substrate. Th is het- erojunction structure improves Voc considerably by the eff ects of the large energy bandgap of the front amorphous silicon layer and the excellent quality of the interface between the amorphous layer and the crystalline substrate. Th is cell has the additional advantage of a low temperature coeffi cient of about 0.30 % K1 at Pmax compare to about 0.45 % K1 for standard industrial crystalline silicon PV cells. Th is cell has a transparent conductive oxide (TCO) ARC, which reduces the sheet resistivity of the front amorphous layers. Th e distinctly lower Jsc compared to other high-effi ciency PV cells appears to be due to suppressed photocurrent collection by the front amorphous silicon layers and the bulk silicon by the eff ects of the lower transparency of the TCO layer compared to other ARCs and/or the lower internal quantum effi ciency of the amorphous layers. Th e result is a weaker blue response and lower Jsc. Th e BC-BJ cell has interdigitated n- and p-doped regions and n and p contacts on the back surface. Th e original BC-BJ cell, called the front surface fi eld (FSF) cell or interdigitated back contact (IBC) cell, was fabricated and studied for space applications in the late 1970s [10,11]. Th e BC-BJ-structured point contact (PC) cell developed by Stanford University in the 1980s gave effi ciencies of more than 20% from the outset [12]. BC-BJ cells were fi rst fabricated for unmanned aircraft and solar race cars by SunPower in the 1990s. Th e cells were then extended to large-scale production for PV generation systems in the 2000s. Th e best conversion effi ciency reported so far for a large-area industrial BC-BJ cell is 23.4% [13]. Th e BC-BJ cell has front and rear surface passivation layers, a random-pyramid light-trapping surface, FSF, interdigitated n- and p-doped regions on the back surface, n and p contact gridlines on n- and p-doped regions, a single-layer ARC and CZ n-type single- crystalline silicon substrate with a minority carrier lifetime of longer than 1 ms. Of all the crystalline silicon PV cell modules on the market at this time, only those based on BC-BJ cells provide the possibility of module effi ciencies exceeding 20%. Several laboratories and manufactures are studying methods for improving the design and processing of BC-BJ cells [14,15]. BC-BJ cells have several advantages compared to the conventional front-contact cell structure: no gridline (sub-electrode) or busbar (main electrode) shading, a front surface with good passivation properties due to the absence of front electrodes, freedom in the design of back contacts (electrodes), and improved appearance with no front electrodes. Th ey also provide advantages in module assembly, allowing the simultaneous interconnection of all cells on a fl exible printed circuit (see Figure 4(d)). Th e low series resistance of interconnection formed by this type of surface-mount technology results in a high FF of 0.800, compared with around 0.75 for standard silicon PV cell modules [16,17]. Industrial cells Monocrystalline solar cells p-Type monocrystalline substrates sliced from boron-doped CZ ingots have been used for standard industrial PV cells for many years. In the early era of terrestrial PV cell production, small 25-inch-diameter CZ ingots were used, the small size and high cost of which obstructed cost reduction for monocrystalline cells. Much research and development has been devoted to reducing the production costs for CZ ingots and wafer processing over the past 20 years. CZ wafers with side lengths of 125 and 156 mm, sliced from 6- and 8-inch-diameter ingots, respectively, are now widely used for monocrystalline silicon PV cell fabrication. Th e fabrica- tion of monocrystalline cells and modules using wafers of the same size as those used for polycrystalline cell production has improved the competi- tiveness of monocrystalline cells against their polycrystalline counterparts in terms of manufacturing cost per output watt. Monocrystalline cells represented 38% of all solar cells manufactured in 2008 [1]. Th ere are large diff erences between the effi ciencies of the best research crystalline silicon PV cells and the corresponding industrial cells. Th e effi ciencies of standard industrial monocrystalline PV cells remain in the range of 1618%, considerably lower than the 25% effi ciency levels of the best research cells. Industrial cells are restricted by economic factors to simple cells that are suitable for high-speed, automated production using low-cost materials. Simple design features, such as front surface texturing and BSF similar, to those developed for terrestrial crystalline- silicon PV cells in the early 1980s are still adopted in most current indus- trial crystalline cells. To improve cell effi ciencies, many cell manufactures are systematically attempting to introduce high-effi ciency features, such as fi ner gridlines, selective emitters or more shallowly doped n+ regions, into existing manufacturing processes. Th e BC-BJ cells and HIT cells have exceptionally high effi ciencies for industrial monocrystalline PV cells, but have complex cell structures that require a much longer production process and more specialized equipment compared with the other industrial cells. As a result, it is diffi cult for these advanced cell types and modules to compete commercially in terms of production cost per output watt. Th ere remains a dilemma in the balance between effi ciency improvement and cost reduction for solar cells and modules using existing manufacturing technologies. Innovative and simple manufacturing technologies and equipment for the fabrication of high- effi ciency solar cells are therefore needed in order to realize signifi cant cost reductions for the production of crystalline silicon PV modules. Another drawback of the monocrystalline cell technologies is that monocrystalline cells based on p-type CZ silicon substrates are suscep- tible to light-induced degradation (LID) caused by the recombination Finger Oxide Grid electrode c-Si (CZ) n-Type TCO p-Type a-Si i-Type a-Si n-Type a-Si p+ n+ n p-silicon p+ Rear contact Inverted pyramid surface a d e b c Textured surface ARC SiO2 passivation SiO2 passivation n+ FSF n+ Diﬀusion p+ Diﬀusion Metal ﬁnger (n) Contact hole n-Type base IBC Cell Printed wiring board Wiring lines Wiring lines Electrodes Front surface passivation Rear surface passivation IBC cell Oxide Metal Plated metal (buried contact) n+ p+ n++ p-silicon Figure 4. Schematics of various crystalline solar cell structures. (a) PERL. Adapted from Ref. 5 ( 1999 Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA). (b) HIT. Adapted from Ref. 48 ( 2008 WIP Munich). (c) BC-BJ. Adapted from Ref. 49. (d) interdigitated back-contact (IBC) cell using surface mount technology. Adapted from Ref. 17 ( 1976 IEEE). (e) Buried-contact cell structure by BP Solar. Adapted from Ref. 40 ( 2008 IEEE). All ﬁ gures reproduced with permission.  2010 Tokyo Institute of Technology T. Saga 100 Vol. 2 July 2010 | NPG ASIA MATERIALS | www.natureasia.com/asia-materials of reactive boronoxygen complexes (B sO 2i). Many studies have been undertaken in attempts to eliminate LID eff ects in monocrystalline- silicon PV cells, and permanent deactivation of the complex at high temperature ( 170 C) has been reported [18]. Boron-doped magnetic- fi eld CZ wafers and gallium-doped CZ wafers also show promise for eliminating LID eff ects in monocrystalline solar cells, and CZ-silicon cells based on phosphorous-doped n-type CZ wafers are also free of LID eff ects. Th e high-effi ciency PV cells of SunPower and Sanyo are made using n-type CZ-silicon wafers. Polycrystalline solar cells Polycrystalline silicon ingots and wafers were developed as a means of reducing the production costs for silicon ingots, and have been investi- gated since the mid-1970s [19,20]. Modern polycrystalline furnaces are designed for maximum productivity, casting ingots of around 450 kg. Polycrystalline cells are currently the most widely produced cells, making up about 48% of world solar cell production in 2008 [1]. Standard poly- crystalline industrial cells off er effi ciencies of 1517%, roughly 1% lower than for monocrystalline cells fabricated on the same production lines. Th e effi ciencies of polycrystalline cell modules, however, are almost the same as those for monocrystalline cells (14%) due to the higher packing factor of the square polycrystalline cells; monocrystalline cells are fabricated from pseudo-square CZ wafers and have relatively poor packing factors. Th e effi ciencies of both monocrystalline and polycrystalline PV cells will be improved in the future through the introduction of high-effi ciency structures. Th e diff erence in effi ciency between monocrystalline and polycrystalline cells is expected to become larger with the introduction of such high-effi ciency structures due to the diff erence in crystal quality (i.e. minority carrier lifetimes). Th e best of the current research polycrystal- line silicon cells, a PERL cell developed by Fraunhofer ISE [21], provides an energy conversion effi ciency of 20.3%. Th is PERL cell has a laser-fi red contact back structure that gives a Voc of as high as 664 mV. Th e effi ciency of this polycrystalline cell, however, remains about 5% lower than that for the best of the research monocrystalline PERL cells, attributable mainly to the quality diff erence between mono- and polycrystalline substrates. Polycrystalline substrates are subject to higher rates of minority carrier recombination, both at active grain boundaries and within crystalline grains due to high dislocation and impurity densities in comparison with FZ or CZ monocrystalline substrates. A considerable amount of research and development has been conducted on improving the effi ciencies of polycrystalline solar cells over many years, by both public and industrial laboratories, and recent high-effi ciency polycrystalline silicon solar cells now have the features listed in Table 2. Th ese features are generally the same as for recent monocrystalline solar cells. Th e honeycomb-structured polycrystalline solar cells demonstrated recently by Mitsubishi Electric exhibit effi ciencies of over 19.3% and come in large 15 cm  15 cm cells [22]. Th ese polycrystalline cells have a distinct front honeycomb-textured surface to reduce light refl ection, and the introduction of this front textured surface has resulted in a high Jsc of 37.5 mA cm2 for cells with screen-printed and fi red silver-paste electrodes. Th is cell also has the PERL structures of front surface pas- sivation, rear surface passivation with local BSF, and a selective emitter for improved cell effi ciency. Approaches to reduce cell costs also include using thinner silicon wafers. High-effi ciency (18.1%) polycrystalline silicon cells fabricated using 100 μm-thick wafers were reported by Sharp in 2009 [23]. Th e electrical performance of crystalline silicon PV cells with the standard back surface structure of an aluminum-alloyed BSF decreases as the substrate becomes thinner. High-effi ciency polycrystalline cells with an SiNx passivation layer and thin aluminum refl ector on the back silicon surface display less of a performance degradation with decreasing sub- strate thickness for substrates of 100180 μm in thickness. Cells with rear passivation and local BSF on 100 μm-thick substrates provide the additional advantage of less cell bowing compared with the standard aluminum alloyed BSF cells on substrates of the same thickness. New types of back-contact polycrystalline cells, such as metal wrap through (MWT) cells and emitter wrap through (EWT) cells (Figure 5), have also been developed by institutes and companies such as ECN, Kyocera and Advent Solar [2426]. BC-BJ cells without a front pn junction require high-quality monocrystalline substrates with high minority carrier lifetimes. Th e WT back-contact cells, however, are suitable for use with polycrystalline substrate having relatively short minority carrier lifetimes (related to cell thickness). Th e front pn junc- tions in these cells can collect most carriers generated in the region from the front n-doped layer to the back substrate surface. Th ese back-contact cells have laser-drilled through-holes that can wrap through front n-electrodes and/or n-doped regions to the back surfaces. Th e MWT cells require only a relatively small number of through-holes to direct photogenerated electrons to the back surface through the metal electrodes and n-doped emitters, and produce higher collection photocurrents due to absence of a bus bar (main electrode) on the front surface as in conventional cells. A high Jsc of 37.3 mA cm2 and an effi ciency of 18.3% were reported for a recent MWT cell by Kyocera [26], and the module effi ciency for MWT cell modules by ECN, 16.4%, is the highest reported to date [25]. Th e EWT cells have a larger number of close-spaced through-holes, which direct photogenerated electrons to the back surface solely through n-doped emitters. Th e EWT cells produce even higher photocurrents by eliminating the both busbar (main electrode) and gridline (sub-electrode) shading on the front surface. A high Jsc of 37.5 mA cm2 and effi ciency of 17.1% were reported recently for EWT cells by Q-Cells. Th e target for industrial polycrystalline PV cells is to realize average cell effi ciencies of 17% in large-scale production [24]. Many methods have been investigated to improve the quality of Table 2. Key technologies for high-efficiency polycrystalline silicon solar cells Minimizing photon loss Front textured surface by acid etching (including honeycomb texturing) or reactive ion etching Chemical polishing (etching) of back surface Back surface refl ector consisting of a dielectric layer and highly refl ective thin metal layer Minimizing carrier loss Shallowly doped n+ regions with SiNx surface passivation layer p-Type silicon substrates with minority carrier diff usion length longer than base thickness Local BSF and point contacts, such as the laser fi red contacts Back surface passivation with SiO2 and/or SiNx layers Minimizing electrical loss Fine gridlines for front electrode by advanced screen printing techniques, such as stencil printing [46] Selective emitter (deep, highly doped emitter beneath front electrodes) Deposition of seed layers then copper plating for metallization instead of screen-printed silver paste n Busbar Through-hole ARC p mc-Si Textured surface n Finger n+ Diﬀusion p+ BSF p Contact Diﬀused n+ junction Laser-drilled hole p Gridline n Gridline p Busbar a b p Si Figure 5. Schematics of back-contact solar cell structures. (a) MWT. Adapted from Ref. 26 ( 2008 WIP Munich). (b) EWT. Adapted from Ref. 25 ( 2008 IEEE). All ﬁ gures reproduced with permission.  2010 Tokyo Institute of Technology Advances in crystalline silicon solar cell technology for industrial mass production Vol. 2 July 2010 | NPG ASIA MATERIALS | www.natureasia.com/asia-materials 101 REVIEW ARTICLE polycrystalline substrates to match that of the more expensive CZ mono- crystalline wafers. Th e dendritic casting method is one such approach that allows the grain orientation and size to be controlled, resulting in high-quality dendritic crystals with parallel twinning. Solar cells based on dendritic polycrystalline wafers show effi ciencies of as high as 17%, comparable to the effi ciencies provided by CZ monocrystalline cells using the same cell fabrication process [27]. Materials and processing Th e raw, high-purity polysilicon material used for the fabrication of crystalline silicon solar cells is generally made by the Siemens method. Th e market price for raw silicon is aff ected by the demandsupply balance for solar cell and semiconductor fabrication, and can fl uctuate markedly. In 20062008, for example, the cost of raw silicon as a proportion of total solar cell module cost jumped from 2030% to more than 50% due to a market shortage of silicon. Reducing the cost of silicon in a cell module by reducing the substrate thickness is therefore an important aspect of achiev- ing overall cost reductions for solar cell modules. Wire-saw wafer slicing is one of the key production technologies for industrial crystalline silicon PV cells, and improvements in wafer slicing technology have resulted in a reduction in raw wafer thickness from 370 μm to 180 μm since 1997 for Sharp industrial polycrystalline-silicon cells (Figure 6). To introduce wafers thinner than 150 μm, sophisticated manufacturing processes suitable for ultrathin wafers will be needed, and the processes will need to provide high processing speed and high manufacturing yield in each of the process steps of wafer slicing, cell fabrication and module assembly. Several alternative growth methods have been proposed over the past four decades for the production of polycrystalline substrates directly from molten silicon, including edge-defi ned fi lm-fed growth (EFG), string ribbon growth (SRG), and ribbon growth on substrate (RGS) [2830]. Th ese methods potentially make it possible to reduce the amount of silicon used in PV cell fabrication. Th e EFG and SRG methods are used on industrial production scales by SCHOTT Solar and Evergreen Solar, respectively [31]. Th ese two methods have the advantages of low silicon consumption per Wp and high cell effi ciencies in comparison with the RGS method. Th ese methods aff ord inexpen- sive but slightly wavey polycrystalline substrates in comparison with the standard polycrystalline substrates. Recently manufactured cells based on direct-grown substrates have almost the same effi ciencies as those of standard cast-silicon polycrystalline cells. However, the smaller EFG- and SRG-based cells, which are roughly half the size of standard industrial cells, incur higher cell and module processing costs. A crystal- lization on dipped substrate method, which can be used to produce standard-sized wafers (156 mm  156 mm) directly from molten silicon in a crucible, was recently proposed by Sharp [32]. Th e front emitter layer of crystalline silicon PV cells is formed by phosphorus diff usion techniques in a quartz tube or belt furnace. Solid P2O5 or liquid POCl3 is used as the phosphorus diff usion source. Phosphorous diff usion techniques the exploit gettering eff ects to reduce impurity densities in a silicon wafer and thereby improve minority carrier lifetime have been demonstrated to be eff ective provided diff u- sion is conducted under phosphorus supersaturation conditions (doping level above the solid solubility in silicon) [3335]. Th e BSF layers in industrial cells are formed by alloying of screen-printed aluminum paste in a belt furnace. Th is process provides high productiv- ity and relatively low process cost for BSF formation. Aluminum-paste alloying has the additional advantage of inducing wafer gettering eff ects in both polycrystalline and monocrystalline silicon PV cells similar to the phosphorus diff usion technologies [36,37]. Metal impurities, such as iron or copper, can be eliminated from bulk silicon by aluminum gettering eff ects, which can improve the minority carrier diff usion length. Th e screen printing and fi ring of silver paste to make contact with the bulk silicon surface by penetrating the ARC is a well-established, simple and fast process for forming front and rear electrodes. It is also the most widely used and lowest-cost method for forming electrodes in industrial crystalline silicon PV cells. Th e front gridlines are designed so as to optimize the trade-off between shadow loss and series resistance. As an alternative to the screen-printed silver paste approach, plated electrodes of layered nickel, copper and silver have been developed by researchers at the UNSW for use in buried-contact (BC) cells [38,39]. Th e BC cell fabricated by BP Solar is shown in Figure 4(e) [40]. Crystalline silicon PV cells with plated electrodes have excellent electrical characteristics due to their low series resistance and fi ne gridlines, which result in a much smaller shadow area. However, plated electrodes, which are formed by a wet process, have not yet become as widely used as the screen-printed silver paste electrodes. Th e silver used as the electrode material in crystal- line silicon cells will become a critical material resource when crystalline silicon solar cell production reaches the large volumes predicted in the future. Copper and aluminum have therefore been considered as substi- tutes for silver in silicon PV contacts. Future views on crystalline silicon solar cells Industrial solar cells module must reach a price level of $1/Wp with a total system price level of $2/Wp to reach grid parity, and to become competitive with coal or nuclear power generation will need to be mass produced at a total system cost of less than $1/Wp. Achieving even a module price of $1/Wp will require modules to be produced at a cost of less than 0.7$/Wp. Although such low costs remain very challenging for modules based on crystalline silicon solar cells, cost reductions to such a level are considered to be possible based on the technologies presented in this review, and the cost reduction must be accomplished while public incentives for PV systems remain in eff ect. Th e annual production volume for all kinds of solar cells is expected to exceed 100 GWp/year by around 2020. Crystalline silicon cell modules have a long history of proven fi eld operation and off er high effi ciencies while presenting fewer resource issues than many competing technologies. As such, crystalline silicon PV cells are expected to be strongly represented in the future solar cell market. To reach these future price levels, new technologies as listed in Table 3 will be needed for crystalline silicon solar cells and modules. New technologies to break through the effi ciency barrier of 25% for Cell thickness (μm) 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 1997 1998 1999 100 0 200 300 400 100% 77% 70% 67% 62% Figure 6. Reduction of silicon wafer thickness by Sharp ( 2010 Sharp) Table 3. New technologies for high-efficiency crystalline silicon solar cells and modules Novel technologies to break through effi ciency barrier of 25% Wafer slicing technologies and equipment for ultrathin (50 μm) wafers Direct slicing technologies and equipment for ultrathin wafers without kerf loss [47] Production technologies and equipment for solar cells and modules based on ultrathin wafers High-quality polycrystalline ingot technologies providing performance comparable to monocrystalline cells Low-cost contact-forming technologies and materials to replace screen- printed and fi red silver paste Low concentration (around 10) and high effi ciency module technologies to minimize total PV system cost  2010 Tokyo Institute of Technology T. Saga 102 Vol. 2 July 2010 | NPG ASIA MATERIALS | www.natureasia.com/asia-materials crystalline silicon PV cells are being studied by many researchers and institutes around the world, but there have yet to be any practical improvements in cell effi ciency. Th e peak theoretical effi ciency in a crystalline silicon solar cell based on a single homojunction and a bulk silicon energy bandgap of 1.1 eV is 30% under 1 sun AM1.5 illumi- nation. To break through this ideal effi ciency limit based on existing Schockley and Queisser solar cell theory, novel technologies based on quantum dot (QD) and quantum well structures have been proposed and studied by many researchers. Multi-junction designs have been attempted in many forms for improving solar cell effi ciency beyond that of a single-junction cell. For example, a triple-junction solar cell with a silicon bottom cell is expected to give effi ciencies of more than 40%. Researchers at the UNSW have also proposed a silicon-based tandem junction solar cell incorporating silicon QD technology [41]. An eff ective bandgap of up to 1.7 eV has been demonstrated for 2 nm- diameter silicon QDs embedded in SiO2 [42]. Photon management, such as up- and down-conversion and plasmonic eff ects, are other potential approaches that could add extra effi ciency based on existing high-effi ciency silicon cells [4345]. Th ese technologies aim at shifting the photon energy of sunlight to match the sensitivity of the solar cell by adding special optical features (e.g. a fl uorescent coating layer including rare-earth elements for up-and down-conversion) to the front and/or rear surface of the cells without modifying the structure of the solar cell itself. Th ese high-effi ciency technologies, however, generally incur higher production costs compared to standard silicon cells. Cell and module manufacturing technologies that satisfy both high effi ciency and low cost will be essential for industrial production in the near future. Th e impacts of novel technologies such as QDs and photon management will be interesting to watch as research and development on crystalline silicon solar cells continues. References [1] Photon International, 176 (March 2009). [2] G. L. Pearson, 18th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, PV founders award luncheon (1985). [3] D. M. Chapin, C. S. Fuller, G. L. Pearson, J. Appl. Phys. 25, 676 (1954). [4] M. A. Green, Prog. Photovoltaics 17, 183 (2009). [5] J. Zhao, A. Wang, M. A. Green, Prog. Photovoltaics 7, 471 (1999). [6] H. Washio et al., Proc. 23rd IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 1347 (1993). [7] M. A. Green, A. W. Blakers, S. R. Wenham, S. Narayanan, Proc. 18th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 39 (1985). [8] Z. Shi, S. Wenham, J. Ji, Proc. 24th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 1090 (2009). [9] M. Taguchi et al., Proc. 24th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 1690 (2009). [10] O. V. Roos, B. Anspaugh, Proc. 13th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 1119 (1978). [11] L. J. Cheng, D. C. Leung, Proc. 14th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 72 (1980). [12] R. A. Sinton, Y. Kwark, P. Gruenbaum, R. M. Swanson, Proc. 18th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 61 (1985). [13] R. M. Swanson, 33rd IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, keynote session (2008). [14] S. Kluska, F. Granek, M. Hermle, S. W. Glunz, Proc. 23rd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 1590 (2008). [15] K. A. Münzer, M. G. Winstel, A. Krause, R. E. Schlosser, Proc. 23rd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 1875 (2008). [16] J. H. Bultman et al., Proc. 3rd World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion, 979 (2003). [17] K. Nakamura et al., Proc. 23rd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 1006 (2008). [18] B. Lim, S. Hermann, K. Bothe, J. Schmidt, R. Brendel, Proc. 23rd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 1018 (2008). [19] J. Lindmayer, Proc. 12th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 82 (1976). [20] H. Fischer, W. Pschunder, Proc. 12th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 86 (1976). [21] O. Schultz, S. W. Glunz, G. P. Willeke, Prog. Photovoltaics 12, 553 (2004). [22] S. Hamamoto et al., Proc. 24th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 1410 (2009). [23] S. Ooka et al., Proc. 19th International Photovoltaic Science and Engineering Conference, CSI8-O-4 (2009). [24] A. A. Mewe et al., Proc. 24th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 946 (2009). [25] J. M. Gee, P. Hacke, M. Hilali, J. C. Jiméno, Proc. 33rd IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 1 (2008). [26] S. Inoue et al., Proc. 23rd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 988 (2008). [27] K. Nakajima, K. Fujiwara, N. Usami, S. Okamoto, 2008 IUMRS-ICEM Photovoltaics Symposium (2008). [28] K. V. Ravi, J. Cryst. Growth 39, 1 (1977). [29] E. Sachs, Proc. Flat-Plate Solar Array Project Research Forum on the High-Speed Growth and Characterization of Crystals for Solar Cells, 279 (1984). [30] H. Lange, I. Schwirtlich, J. Cryst. Growth 104, 108 (1990). [31] S. Seren et al., Proc. 4th World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion, 972 (2006). [32] T. Takakura et al., Proc. 23rd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 1472 (2008). [33] S. A. McHugo, H. Hieslmair, E. R. Weber, Appl. Phys. A 64, 127 (1997). [34] S. Wenham, M. Green, Photovolt. 4, 3 (1996). [35] W. Schröter, R. Kühnapfel, Appl. Phys. Lett. 56, 2207 (1990). [36] G. C. Cheek, R. P. Mertens, R. van Overstraeten, L. Frisson, IEEE Trans. Electron Dev. 31, 602 (1984). [37] P. Lolgen et al., Proc. 23rd IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 236 (1993). [38] S. R. Wenham, M. A. Green, US Patent 4,726,850 (1988). [39] S. R. Wenham, M. A. Green, US Patent 4,748,130 (1988). [40] M. A. Green et al., Proc. 20th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 411 (1988). [41] M.A. Green et al., Proc. 23rd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 1 (2008). [42] S. Park, E. Cho, X. Hao, G. Conibeer, M. A. Green, Proc. 23rd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 189 (2008). [43] S. Schweizer, P. Miclea, B. Henke, B. Ahrens, Proc. 23rd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 54 (2008). [44] H. Mataki et al., Proc. 34th IEEE Photovoltaic Specialists Conference, 600 (2009). [45] D. M. Schaadt, B. Feng, E. T. Yu, Appl. Phys. Lett. 86, 063106 (2005). [46] J. Hoornstra, B. Heurtault, Proc. 24th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 989 (2009). [47] F. Henley et al., Proc. 24th European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 886 (2009). [48] H. Kanno et al., Proc. 23rd European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 1136 (2008). [49] K. McIntosh, M. Cudzinovic, D. Smith, W Mulligan, R. Swanson., Proc. 3rd World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion, 4O-D10-05 (2003). Tatsuo Saga Tatsuo Saga received his BS and MS degrees from the Faculty of Engineering, Nagoya University. He joined Sharp Corporation in 1974, where he worked on the development of photovoltaic cells for space use. Since 1999, he has been general manager of the engi- neering and production departments for terrestrial- and space-use photovoltaic cells and modules. He became division deputy general manager of the Solar Systems Division in Solar Systems Group in 2003, and group deputy general manager of the Solar Systems Group in 2006 and the Solar Systems Development Group in 2009. He is currently an executive technical research fellow in Sharps Solar System Development Group. Author profi le  2010 Tokyo Institute of Technology